102 
FXUS61 KOKX 050101
AFDOKX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service New York NY
801 PM EST Tue Mar 4 2025

.SYNOPSIS...
High pressure off the Mid Atlantic coast will slowly move
farther offshore through tonight. As strong low pressure moves
northeast through the upper Great Lakes region on Wednesday, a
pre-frontal trough will approach and move across in the
afternoon and evening, followed by a cold front late Wednesday
night into Thursday morning. The front will move farther to the
east Thursday night, with high pressure gradually building in
and passing to the south through Friday. A weak frontal system 
then passes nearby on Saturday. Another low pressure system 
should pass well to the south on Sunday as weak high pressure 
moves in through early next week.

&&

.NEAR TERM /UNTIL 6 AM WEDNESDAY MORNING/...
Weak warm advection tonight increases toward Wednesday morning,
and temperatures are expected to be non diurnal, falling off 
into late tonight, and then holding steady or slowly rising. 
With a rather dry column and little forcing do not expect any 
showers through tonight.

&&

.SHORT TERM /6 AM WEDNESDAY MORNING THROUGH WEDNESDAY NIGHT/...
Deep low pressure still expected to pass well to the northwest
of the region. passing through the Great Lakes and into southern
Canada, Wednesday into Wednesday night. With some increase in
isentropic lift Wednesday morning there may be a few scattered
showers that move through. However, the area should remain dry
until the pre frontal trough approaches by midday. The system
will be slow moving with a highly amplified trough and upstream
ridge. The warm front may just briefly move through late
Wednesday afternoon and be quickly followed by the cold front.
Cams are showing a developing line of showers with embedded
thunderstorms. Any thunderstorms will be elevated as a low level
cap is in place. Any with limited instability and CAPE,
thunderstorms may be more isolated. With a strong marine
influence thunderstorms east of NYC and across southern
Connecticut may be more isolated or may not even occur.The
strong southerly flow will bring increased moisture with
precipitable water values up to 1.25 inches Wednesday evening,
and continues to mention moderate to briefly heavy rain, with
rainfall rates up to 1/2 inch an hour, and possibly up to 1 
inch per hour. If the heavy rainfall occurs isolated nuisance 
urban and poor drainage flooding will be possible. Showers will 
continue once the pre frontal trough moves through.

Strong winds are also possible with this system, but with a
strong inversion not sure how much mixing will happen, and 
winds and gusts are likely to remain below wind advisory levels.

&&

.LONG TERM /THURSDAY THROUGH TUESDAY/...
High pressure begins to build in slowly during Thursday, however a 
cyclonic flow aloft with some moisture lingers as a mid level trough 
shifts through. Only a chance of showers with the overall highest 
probabilities being north and east of the city and generally in the 
morning. Winds will shift westerly and increase more noticeably in 
the afternoon. Thinking is that this downsloping flow combined with 
partial sunshine and delayed cold air advection will allow for high 
temperatures to be warmer than deterministic NBM numbers. Went 
closer to the NBM 75th percentile, which is a few degrees warmer. 
Highs generally in the 50s.

Winds increase further Thursday night with steepening of the 
pressure gradient, then winds slowly diminish during Friday. W to NW 
gusts 30-35 mph are expected at night with a few gusts near 40 mph 
possible. Gusts then gradually lower to 20-25 mph by the end of 
Friday afternoon. Friday will be mostly sunny with highs mostly 45-
50.

Models have trended weaker and farther south with a trough and weak 
low center Friday night into Saturday morning. Have gone with a dry 
forecast, but still can't completely rule out a sprinkle or flurry 
during this period. Mostly sunny otherwise for Saturday afternoon 
with highs in the middle and upper 40s. Model consensus then keeps a 
stronger area of low pressure and associated precip well to our 
south on Sunday. 

A fast flow aloft brings uncertainty regarding the timing and 
strength of weak clipper-type lows or troughs potentially shifting 
nearby during the Sunday night through Monday period. In any case, 
moisture is limited, so will go with a dry forecast for the time 
being. Ridging at the surface and aloft with a SW flow then brings 
us milder weather for Tuesday.

&&

.AVIATION /01Z WEDNESDAY THROUGH SUNDAY/...

**HIGH IMPACT AVIATION WEATHER WEDNESDAY AFTERNOON/NIGHT**

Deepening low pressure over the Mid Mississippi Valley tonight
will lift up into the Great Lakes on Wednesday, sending a strong
frontal system into the area.

The biggest change with this 00Z TAFs is to stay mainly VFR
until late afternoon Wednesday. The exception here is at KHPN
and KSWF where conditions are expected to lower more quickly 
late tonight into the morning. That being said, it's still not 
out of the question for lower conditions to develop sooner or at
least be occasional. The outlier is whether the low-levels 
moisten quicker with the high dew point air moving across the 
ocean waters. In addition, a weak warm front works up the 
coast in the afternoon. 

A strong southerly wind field ahead of the low and approaching 
cold front will result in LLWS developing toward morning and 
continuing into Wednesday night. A this time of year, with the 
cold ocean waters and warm air moving across them, there will be
a strong inversion in place. This will limit the magnitude of 
the wind getting to the surface, but still expect gusts of 25 
to 35 kt in the afternoon and at night. Isolated gusts up to 40
kt at the coastal terminals. Winds at top of the inversion 
around 2000 ft will peak at 55 to 65 kt.

Heavy showers are expected with a pre-frontal trough during the
evening hours Wednesday. An isolated thunderstorm is possible, 
but confidence is low. 

.OUTLOOK FOR 00Z THURSDAY THROUGH SUNDAY...

Wednesday night: IFR, with a line of heavy showers moving
through during the evening hours. Isolated thunderstorms 
possible. LLWS. S winds 15-25 kt G25-35KT, with few gusts 
up to 40 kt, especially at the coastal terminals. Winds subside
gradually from west to east late.

Thursday: Mainly VFR. Gusty WNW winds developing in the afternoon, 
increasing to 15-20 kt G25-35 kt

Friday: VFR. W winds G25-30kt.

Saturday: VFR with W winds G15-20kt possible.

Sunday: VFR with NW/W winds.

Detailed information, including hourly TAF wind component forecasts, 
can be found at: https:/www.weather.gov/zny/n90

&&

.MARINE...
With a frontal system impacting the waters Wednesday and
Wednesday night a strong southerly flow will continue tonight,
and possibly increase Wednesday into Wednesday night. With the
cold ocean waters mixing of higher winds aloft will be limited,
and have discontinued the gale watch for Long Island Sound and
the Long Island eastern bays, and issued a SCA Wednesday into
Wednesday night. The strongest winds will be over the near shore
ocean waters and continues the gale warning for the ocean, and
added the Long Island south shore bays, and New York Harbor. The
Harbor may be more marginal, and duration may be shorter than
the warning with gusts diminishing Wednesday evening.

SCA conds for the ocean on Thursday as seas remain elevated. 
Winds pick up, and by the end of the day, some of the non-ocean 
waters could see gusts near 25 kt. A steepening pressure 
gradient will increase sustained winds and gusts across all 
waters Thursday night before gradually subsiding through the day
Friday. A good chance of W to NW Gales on the ocean for 
Thursday night into at least Friday morning. Gales possible 
Thursday night elsewhere, with confidence at least high enough 
to leave a mention in the HWO. 

Sub-SCA conds for the non-ocean waters for Friday night, but 
advisory thresholds will probably still be met on the ocean as winds 
and seas take longer to subside. Sub-advisory conditions will be 
likely for the upcoming weekend, but winds and seas on the ocean 
could be close to criteria at times.

&&

.HYDROLOGY...
A frontal system impacting the region Wednesday and Wednesday night 
should produce QPF of 1/2 up to 1 inch, with locally higher
amounts possible. Higher totals are expected inland. Rainfall 
rates could approach 1/2 inch per hour in spots at the time of 
heaviest rainfall, which could lead to nuisance urban and poor 
drainage flooding.

No hydrological impacts are expected Thursday through early next 
week.

&&

.TIDES/COASTAL FLOODING...
Astronomical tides will remain low through the end of the week. 
Intensifying southerly flow ahead of a strong storm system will 
increase tide levels during the Wednesday night/early Thursday 
morning high tide. Surge of 1.5 to 3 ft is needed to reach 
minor flooding benchmarks. The strongest winds may actually 
occur before high tide, limiting the surge somewhat during high 
tide. Most locations should remain at or below action stage. 
However, some of the most vulnerable locations across the south 
shore back bays and western Sound could touch minor flooding 
benchmarks. 

Large breaking waves 8-10 ft are forecast late Wednesday into
Wednesday night along the oceanfront, with beach flooding and
erosion possible.

&&

.OKX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CT...None.
NY...None.
NJ...None.
MARINE...Small Craft Advisory from 6 AM Wednesday to 4 AM EST Thursday 
     for ANZ331-332-335-340.
     Gale Warning from 6 AM to 10 PM EST Wednesday for ANZ338.
     Gale Warning from 6 AM Wednesday to 4 AM EST Thursday for 
     ANZ345-350-353-355.
     Small Craft Advisory until 6 AM EST Wednesday for ANZ350-353-
     355.

&&

$$

SYNOPSIS...JC/MET
NEAR TERM...MET
SHORT TERM...MET
LONG TERM...JC
AVIATION...DW
MARINE...JC/MET
HYDROLOGY...JC/MET
TIDES/COASTAL FLOODING...
