388 
FXUS61 KOKX 090246
AFDOKX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service New York NY
1046 PM EDT Tue Jul 8 2025

.SYNOPSIS...
A cold front stalls near the forecast area through Thursday night, 
then either remains stalled to the south Friday into Saturday or 
washes out altogether. Another frontal system may pass to the north 
Sunday into Monday.

&&

.NEAR TERM /UNTIL 6 AM WEDNESDAY MORNING/...
Convection has shifted to southern CT as a complex of
shower/storms continues to move across the area. The severe
thunderstorm threat has ended, but there is still a localized
flash flood risk across CT. Have cancelled the flood watch for
all but our Southern CT zones. 

The slow moving frontal boundary will linger overnight so cannot
completely rule out additional showers, but not anticipating any
widespread activity once the current complex moves out of CT. 

&&

.SHORT TERM /6 AM WEDNESDAY MORNING THROUGH THURSDAY/...
Somewhat cooler temperatures on Wednesday and lower dew points may 
preclude the need for a Heat Advisory. Highs are expected to be in 
the upper 80s to lower 90s, with index values approaching the mid 
90s. So, it is marginal, but Heat Advisories may need to be issued 
once again for Wednesday. Temperatures cool slightly more by 
Thursday.

With the cold front in the vicinity, shower and thunderstorms are in 
the forecast for both days, though just a slight chance for 
Wednesday and better chances for Thursday, as weak areas of low 
pressure ride along the boundary and aid in any weak lift that might 
be present with the front. SPC has a small portion of the area in a 
marginal risk for severe thunderstorms, which includes southern 
portions of NE NJ and SW portions of SW portions of NYC. Flooding 
will also continue to be a concern as the air mass really does not 
change much and very humid conditions remain in place.

&&

.LONG TERM /THURSDAY NIGHT THROUGH TUESDAY/...
A stalling front eventually pushes south of the area Thursday night 
as a midlevel shortwave and upper low exits northeast in Canada. 
This front will then either remain stalled nearby or washout 
altogether into the weekend. At the same time, most guidance show a 
weak ridge building Friday into Saturday. Unfortunately, global 
guidance really varies on solutions Sunday into Monday. Some bring 
another frontal system Sunday into Monday night to our north while 
others keep this system too far north to impact us, opting for 
building high pressure at the surface instead. 

Generally southerly flow is expected for most of the long-term 
period. This should keep dewpoints and atmospheric moisture high and 
continue chances for daily showers and thunderstorms Friday through 
Monday. Mainly slight chance POPs east with low-end chance POPs west 
where daily instability from daytime heating could be stronger. 

Temperatures through the long-term period will generally be close to 
just above climatological norms. Highs each day will be in the mid 
80s to low 90s. Lows each night will be in the mid 60s to mid 70s. 
However, the difference between NBM's 25th and 75th percentiles for 
max temperatures is about 15 degrees Saturday through Monday, 
further highlighting the uncertainty and disagreement among the 
guidance in the long-term period.

&&

.AVIATION /03Z WEDNESDAY THROUGH SUNDAY/...
A weak cold front stalls over or near the terminals through the
TAF period.

Showers and thunderstorms done for all terminals for the night,
with some showers lingering for KGON. Showers and thunderstorms
return Wednesday afternoon. Brief MVFR possible for some
terminals tonight, otherwise VFR.

High variability in wind direction through the TAF period due 
to proximity of the front and showers/thunderstorms. In 
general, a NW flow by Wednesday morning, then shifting back to 
the S/SW after 18Z Wed.

 ...NY Metro (KEWR/KLGA/KJFK/KTEB) TAF Uncertainty... 

Uncertainty with wind direction through the TAF period with
nearby front and showers/thunderstorms on Wednesday.

Uncertainty with coverage and timing of showers/thunderstorms
Wednesday.

.OUTLOOK FOR 00Z WEDNESDAY THROUGH SUNDAY... 

Wed night-Fri: Periods of shwrs and tstms possible. Mainly VFR 
outside of shwrs and tstms.

Sat-Sun: Mainly VFR. A chance for aftn/eve shwrs and tstms.

Detailed information, including hourly TAF wind component forecasts, 
can be found at: https:/www.weather.gov/zny/n90

&&

.MARINE...
A diminishing SE swell will allow seas to diminish this evening. 
SCAs continue form Fire Island Inlet through Montauk. The SCA from 
Fire Island inlet to Moriches inlet may be need to be cancelled 
within the next few hours. Otherwise, the SCAs are in effect until 2 
am. Thereafter, with a weak pressure gradient, winds and waves stay 
below SCA criteria through Thursday.

&&

.HYDROLOGY...
A Flood Watch remains in effect Southern CT as a convective
complex continues to impact the state. Localized flash flooding
is the main threat. 

A marginal risk of excessive rainfall remains in place for much of 
the area on Wednesday and Thursday with a continued localized flash 
flooding threat.

&&

.TIDES/COASTAL FLOODING...A moderate rip current risk has been
forecast for Wed for all the ocean beaches due to incoming 3-4 
ft/7-sec swell. It is possible that a short fused high risk may 
be needed for Wed afternoon at the Suffolk beaches if AM beach 
reports there come in on the high side.

The moderate risk continues for all but the NYC beaches for Thu.

&&

.OKX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CT...Flood Watch until 2 AM EDT Wednesday for CTZ005>012.
     Air Quality Alert until 11 PM EDT this evening for CTZ005>012.
NY...Air Quality Alert until 11 PM EDT this evening for NYZ078>081-
     177-179.
NJ...None.
MARINE...Small Craft Advisory until 2 AM EDT Wednesday for ANZ350-353.

&&

$$

SYNOPSIS...JP/BR
NEAR TERM...JP/DS
SHORT TERM...JP
LONG TERM...BR
AVIATION...DBR/JT
MARINE...JP/BR
HYDROLOGY...JP/BR
TIDES/COASTAL FLOODING...
