053 
FXUS61 KOKX 021358
AFDOKX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service New York NY
958 AM EDT Wed Jul 2 2025

.SYNOPSIS...
A cold front slowly advances into the area today, and washes 
out tonight. Another cold front passes Thursday afternoon into 
early Thursday evening. High pressure builds in behind the front
Thursday night. High pressure remains on Independence Day into 
the beginning of the weekend. The high moves offshore late 
Sunday followed by a pre- frontal trough and weak low pressure 
southwest of the area Monday into Tuesday.

&&

.NEAR TERM /THROUGH TONIGHT/...
A weak shortwave trough slowly slides east through the area 
today. At the surface, a weak trough gradually pushes SE of the
region through the afternoon, sliding shower activity across 
southern and eastern areas east through the late morning/early 
afternoon. Before then, a few heavier showers or even a rumble 
of thunder is possible across SE LI before this activity slides
SE.

Across northern and western areas gradual drying conditions 
this morning, although mid- high clouds will be slow to clear 
from NW to SE this afternoon. Deep SW flow may still linger mid-high
clouds over far eastern areas into tonight. Mostly clear skies 
are expected for the rest of the area tonight. 

Highs near seasonable in the lower to mid 80s with lows tonight
in the low 70s to mid 60s.

&&

.SHORT TERM /THURSDAY THROUGH FRIDAY NIGHT/...
On Thursday, a long wave upper-level trough over Ontario & Quebec 
amplifies as it rotates east into Quebec with surface low pressure 
developing over eastern Quebec and the Canadian Maritimes. This 
brings another cold front through the area Thursday afternoon into 
early evening. 

While much of the morning will be mostly sunny, partly to mostly 
cloudy skies are expected in the afternoon as the cold front brings 
with it a period of showers and thunderstorms. 00Z CAMs are wishy 
washy on the amount of CAPE. However, they are consistent on only 
marginal mid-level lapse rates with good 0-6 km bulk shear. With 
marginal mid-level lapse rates (most 00Z CAMs range from 6.5-
7.1C/km) it may be difficult for some thunderstorm development, but 
given enough CAPE, thunderstorm chances look decent. With ample 
shear available (most 00Z CAMs have at least 30 kts, with some 
pushing 60 kts) any thunderstorms that do occur could become strong 
to severe with an isolated risk for damaging winds. 

Given more radiational heating, highs will be warmer on Thursday, 
reaching the low 90s to mid 80s. Lows Thursday night will cool to 
near 70 to the mid 50s at the coast while interior areas will cool 
into the low 60s. 

Our Independence Day forecast couldn't look better. High 
pressure settles Thursday night following a cold front and 
remains in place through Independence Day. Sunny skies are 
expected with highs in the low to mid 80s. Clear skies remain 
into Friday night allowing for good viewing of firework 
displays.

&&

.LONG TERM /SATURDAY THROUGH TUESDAY/...
Key Points:

* Dry and warm this weekend
* Becoming more humid to begin next week

Seasonably warm and dry to begin the weekend with a nice stretch of 
weather. Towards late in the day Sunday and into Sunday night with 
high pressure getting further offshore a more humid return flow gets 
established. This will usher in higher dew points as it turns more 
uncomfortable with high humidity levels for the early and middle 
part of next week.

Global NWP guidance is in excellent agreement with a trough of low 
pressure drawing closer later on Monday which will precede a cold 
front well back to the west. The progression of the cold front may 
slow leading to the trough lingering and potentially being a trigger 
for diurnally driven convection in a very humid air mass. It remains 
too soon to get into details, but scattered showers and 
thunderstorms may develop for the afternoon and evening hours for 
Monday, Tuesday, and possibly Wednesday of next week. The relatively 
higher chance of diurnally driven convection would be further NW 
across the area.

No significant changes were made to the extended forecast with NBM 
guidance utilized.

&&

.AVIATION /14Z WEDNESDAY THROUGH SUNDAY/...
A cold front stalls over the area today, before moving east 
tonight into Thursday morning.

VFR.

Winds get mostly to around 5 to 10 kt out of the W and NW this 
morning. Later today (mainly this afternoon) coastal terminals turn 
more SW with sea breeze development up to 10 kt. Cannot rule out 
some occasional gusts for KGON and KISP late this afternoon, with 
confidence too low to include in TAFs. The winds then become light 
during Wednesday evening.

 ...NY Metro (KEWR/KLGA/KJFK/KTEB) TAF Uncertainty...

Amendments possible into the afternoon with timing of sea breeze 
related wind direction changes for KJFK and KLGA. Sea breeze not 
expected to make it to KEWR and KTEB.


.OUTLOOK FOR 12Z THURSDAY THROUGH SUNDAY... 

Thursday: Possible showers and thunderstorms with brief MVFR or 
lower possible day into early eve, higher chances north and west of 
NYC terminals.

Friday-Sunday: VFR.

Detailed information, including hourly TAF wind component
forecasts, can be found at: https:/www.weather.gov/zny/n90

&&

.MARINE...
Sub-SCA conditions are expected on all waters under a weak pressure 
gradient today through Friday night. 

Tstms may pose a hazard of gusty winds, lightning, heavy rain, 
and locally rough seas Thu aft/eve.

A light pressure gradient continues over the waters to begin the 
weekend with tranquil conditions. By Sunday a return wind flow out 
of the south takes hold with ocean seas around 3 ft. Other than 
somewhat marginal small craft seas on the eastern ocean possible 
Sunday night, sub advisory conditions are expected to prevail 
through the weekend and into the start of next week.

&&

.HYDROLOGY...
A low pressure trough stalls nearby late Monday into Tuesday. With a 
humid air mass in place and PWATs expected to be high 
climatologically, isolated to scattered showers and storms could 
produce localized heavy rainfall. Impacts remain unknown at 
this time with details unknown this far out.

&&

.TIDES/COASTAL FLOODING...
A high risk of rip currents continues today due to a southerly 
swell of 4-5 ft 7s, combined with 1 ft easterly swell. This 
will produce waves in the surf zone of 3-5 ft. 

The residual S swell will subside to around 3 ft heading into 
Thursday with the rip risk expected to lower to moderate.

&&

.OKX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CT...None.
NY...High Risk for Rip Currents until 9 PM EDT this evening for NYZ075-
     080-081-178-179.
NJ...None.
MARINE...None.

&&

$$

SYNOPSIS...JE/BR
NEAR TERM...BR/NV
SHORT TERM...BR
LONG TERM...JE
AVIATION...JE
MARINE...JE/BR
HYDROLOGY...JE/BR
TIDES/COASTAL FLOODING...
