020 
FXUS61 KOKX 091502
AFDOKX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service New York NY
1102 AM EDT Sun Mar 9 2025

.SYNOPSIS...
High pressure noses in from the south early today as it shifts 
offshore. A series of weak lows will then pass north of the area 
this afternoon through tonight. The area will then be in between two 
stronger lows, one to the north and one to the south, as they head 
east Monday night through Tuesday. The northern low will drag a cold 
front through our area Tuesday night. High pressure remains near 
the region Wednesday through Friday. A frontal system begins to 
approaches and moves across the area Saturday into Sunday.

&&

.NEAR TERM /THROUGH TONIGHT/...
A shrtwv passes thru the cwa this aftn. Deepest moisture is N of
the area, as is the best instability. Some weak sbCAPE modeled
from the Taconics and Berkshires nwd. As a result, have
downgraded any chc for shwrs to a slight chc of sprinkles 
across the area today. Expecting most if not all of the area to 
remain dry.

A burst of stronger winds behind the wave with strong
subsidence. Wind direction will veer a little to the NW as 
well. No changes to the wind speed fcst attm. NBM90th percentile 
gusts were blended with the NAM 850mb winds to derive forecast 
gusts. In general gusts up to 35 mph expected, but there could
be a few higher gusts around 40 mph with the shrtwv and any evap
cooling contribution this aftn.

Dry tngt with mainly some mid and high clouds. 

&&

.SHORT TERM /MONDAY THROUGH TUESDAY NIGHT/...
Quiet weather in the short term period with warm and dry conditions 
expected. Two stronger areas of low pressure will pass by the 
area Monday night through Tuesday (one to the north and one to
the south), but will not result in any weather for our area.

A warm up is expected, with highs each day in the 60s for northeast 
NJ, NYC and the Lower Hudson Valley and 50s elsewhere. The pressure 
gradient will be very weak over the area on Monday. Given this, cold 
water temps and plenty of sun, a sea breeze is expected. This will 
cool off any coastal areas quite a bit. Coastal CT and the south 
coast of LI likely see their high temperatures in the early 
afternoon.

The pressure gradient increases on Tuesday due to the influence
of the northern low rather than the southern one. This will 
bring a gusty S/SW flow. It will also bring a slight increase in
moisture to the area. An associated cold front moves through 
late Tuesday night, but does not bring any precipitation.

&&

.LONG TERM /WEDNESDAY THROUGH SATURDAY/...
The period starts off with high pressure north of the region on 
Wednesday and Wednesday night. A weak upper level shortwave and 
associated cold front move across the area on Thursday. Some of the 
00z forecast guidance is showing some shower activity, however the 
NBM is mainly dry. Will go ahead and carry a slight chance POP 
through the day to account for this feature. Its likely it will 
remain more dry than wet.

High pressure remains near the region Thursday night into early 
Saturday morning. A cold front is then expected to move across the 
area late Saturday into Sunday. Will carry just chance pops for the 
weekend. 

High temperatures on Wednesday and Thursday will be in the upper 40s 
and lower to middle 50s. By Friday temperatures rise into the 50s to 
near 60 across the NJ metro area. High temperatures for the weekend 
will be in the middle 50s to low to mid 60s. The only exception will 
be right along the coastline, where temperatures will be a few 
degrees cooler.

&&

.AVIATION /15Z SUNDAY THROUGH THURSDAY/...
Weak low pressure passes to the north today, dragging a surface
trough across the area this afternoon. At the same time, high 
pressure passes to the south off the Mid Atlantic coast. 

VFR through the TAF period. W to SW winds today. Speeds will 
increase into this afternoon with gusts back up to 25-30 kt.
Can not rule out a few gusts over 30kt. Winds diminish this 
evening with gusts ending 22Z-00Z. 

 ...NY Metro (KEWR/KLGA/KJFK/KTEB) TAF Uncertainty...

Onset of gusts may delayed 1-2 hours.

Peak gusts may be slightly higher than forecast in the 17-
22Z timeframe.

.OUTLOOK FOR 12Z MONDAY THROUGH THURSDAY...

Monday: VFR with W/SW flow.

Tuesday: VFR with S flow.

Wednesday: VFR with N flow.

Thursday: MVFR or lower possible with E flow.

Detailed information, including hourly TAF wind component forecasts, 
can be found at: https:/www.weather.gov/zny/n90

&&

.MARINE...
Small Craft Advisory conditions are expected on all waters today 
with 25 to 30 kt gusts expected. The SCA on the eastern ocean zone 
will continue through tonight as seas remain at 5 ft and 25 kt gusts 
return late tonight. Sub-SCA conditions then expected Monday through 
Tuesday night.

SCA conditions are expected on the ocean waters Wednesday and 
Thursday will seas around 5 ft. Seas are then expected to fall below 
5ft Thursday night. The non-ocean waters will remain below SCA 
levels.

&&

.FIRE WEATHER...
Today will feature minimum RH 20-40 percent with gusty WSW 
flow. Gusts up to 30 to 35 mph are expected by the afternoon. 
Fine fuel moisture will change little. An SPS has been issued
for NJ per collab with the state. 

&&

.HYDROLOGY...
There are no hydrologic concerns through the end of next week.

&&

.OKX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CT...None.
NY...None.
NJ...None.
MARINE...Small Craft Advisory until 6 PM EDT this evening for ANZ331-
     332-335-338-340-345.
     Small Craft Advisory until 7 AM EDT Monday for ANZ350.
     Small Craft Advisory until 6 PM EDT this evening for ANZ353-
     355.

&&

$$

SYNOPSIS...BC/JT
NEAR TERM...JMC/JT
SHORT TERM...JT
LONG TERM...BC
AVIATION...BC/DW
MARINE...BC/JT
FIRE WEATHER...
HYDROLOGY...BC/JT
