456 
FXUS61 KOKX 052059
AFDOKX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service New York NY
359 PM EST Sun Jan 5 2025

.SYNOPSIS...
A quick moving low will pass through the Mid Atlantic region on 
Monday and offshore Monday night. High pressure then slowly 
builds in from the west through Friday. An area of low pressure
may pass nearby next weekend.

&&

.NEAR TERM /UNTIL 6 AM MONDAY MORNING/...
The pressure gradient over the area weakens tonight, while heights 
rise slightly aloft. Surface winds gradually lower through tonight, 
becoming light (5 kt or less) for a period. Stratocu should slowly 
decrease through the evening for much of the area as model 
soundings show the lower levels drying out. 

Given the loss of cloud cover and light winds, there could be a
brief period where temps drop quick this evening. However, mid 
to high level cloud cover moves in the second half of the night,
so radiational cooling conditions are not ideal for the entire 
night. Forecast lows are in the low to mid 20s for most. Given 
the aforementioned brief period of efficient cooling, the usual 
cold spots could potentially see lows in the mid to upper teens.

&&

.SHORT TERM /6 AM MONDAY MORNING THROUGH MONDAY NIGHT/...
A surface low currently centered over Arkansas, and the associated 
upper level low, will lift towards the Mid Atlantic tonight and move 
offshore sometime late Monday morning into Monday afternoon. The low 
is still progged to pass well south of the area, about 300 miles
offshore. As it passes to the south, it will deepen as the 
upper level low opens up and become negatively tilted.

There were no major trends/changes with the 12z guidance. QPF 
overall did come down a hair compared to the 00z guidance for 
most locations, however, forecast SLRs were increased a bit from
the previous forecast, so snow amounts have generally stayed 
the same or increased by a tenth of an inch.

The story remains the same. As the low passes to the south we look 
to get scraped by the far northern edge of the precip shield. With 
plenty of cold air in place, this will result in an all light snow 
event. In fact, most places likely do not get above freezing on 
Monday. All guidance is in agreement with strong 850 frontogenesis 
staying well offshore and in turn any snow banding will stay well 
south of the area. Light snow likely enters northeast NJ and 
NYC around 10am and will be done by 3 to 4pm. There could be a 
period between noon and 2pm where snow rates reach 0.2 to 0.4 
inch/per for one hour based on model consensus timing of
strongest lift and hourly QPF fields.

As mentioned, totals have largely stayed the same as the previous 
forecast. Extreme southwestern portions of the area (Union, Staten 
Island, Brooklyn and southern Queens) look to have the best chance 
at seeing an inch. On the other hand, much of the Lower Hudson 
Valley and southern CT likely do not see more than a trace. Not 
expecting a significant shift as we are within 18-24 hours, but
if the system does end up tracking a bit farther north than 
forecast then reasonable worst case amounts for the southwestern
portion of the area are around 1.5 to 2 inches.

&&

.LONG TERM /TUESDAY THROUGH SUNDAY/...
Key Points:

* Cold, windy, and predominantly dry conditions expected through the 
  upcoming week. Daytime wind chills generally in the teens and as 
  low as the single digits overnight.

* Next chance for widespread precipitation could arrive next weekend.

Globals models are in good overall agreement this period with the 
mean upper trough across eastern Canada extending into the NE 
quarter of the CONUS. This will keep the area dry and unseasonably 
cold through much of the week. A pattern change toward the end may 
end with potential impacts from a storm system tracking across the 
southern states. 

Blocking over Greenland with positive height anomalies will allow a 
polar vortex over the Canadian Maritimes to only slowly lift out to 
the NE through the week. At the same time, ridging remains in place 
across the E PAC into western Canada. This will allow for a steady 
stream of polar air reinforcements through Thursday. During this 
time, expect temperatures about 10 degrees below normal. 
Temperatures likely don't get above freezing until Friday. NBM box 
and whisker plots continue to show the deterministic highs at or 
above the 75th percentile through the period, but closer to the 
median (50th) for lows. Stayed with a blend of the NBM with its 
median for highs to air slightly on the colder side. At the same 
time, polar high pressure over the Plains and Midwest bleeds south 
and east, weakening as it does so through the week. This will 
maintain a tight pressure gradient into Friday, with a strong W/NW 
flow. Expect gusts of 30 to 40 mph each afternoon, possibly near 
advisory levels for Tuesday. This will generate wind chills 
generally in the teens each day and as low as the single digits at 
night. 

The upper air pattern briefly looks to get interrupted as a piece of 
Pac energy breaks through the ridge over western Canada. It is the 
interaction of this piece of energy along with a cutoff low over the 
desert SW that brings a storm system across the southern tier of 
states. The 12Z globals have reverted to a more progressive, weaker 
system with low pressure passing off the Carolina coast next 
Saturday. This is quite different from some of the previous runs the 
last 24h, which rapped up an intense coastal low just south and east 
of the area. This system will bring the next chance for 
precipitation to the area. It is much too early though to rely on 
any one solution and it will need to be watched the next few days.

&&

.AVIATION /21Z SUNDAY THROUGH FRIDAY/...
Weak low pres passes S of the region on Mon.

VFR thru tngt, then clouds lower Mon mrng. MVFR expected aft 12Z, 
with pockets of IFR possible in steadier snow roughly 14-19Z. 
Improvement to VFR by 20-22Z Mon.

Runway accums less than an inch expected. 

Flow generally 280-300 true thru tngt. Decreasing winds aft 22Z, 
with speeds blw 10kt all arpts by 6Z. Lgt flow blw 10kt on Mon with 
winds veering slightly to 340-360 true.

 ...NY Metro (KEWR/KLGA/KJFK/KTEB) TAF Uncertainty...

Amendments possible for timing and intensity of -SN on Mon.

OUTLOOK FOR 18Z MONDAY THROUGH FRIDAY...

Rest of Monday: VFR by 20-22Z. Winds increase again aft 00Z Tue with 
NW gusts up to 30kt.

Tuesday through Thursday: VFR and windy. Gusts aoa 35kt at times.

Friday: VFR.

Detailed information, including hourly TAF wind component forecasts, 
can be found at: https:/www.weather.gov/zny/n90

&&

.MARINE...
A Small Craft Advisory remains in effect on all waters until this 
evening for 20 to 30 knot gusts and 5 to 7 ft seas across the ocean 
zones. As winds lower, the SCA expires gradually from west to east. 
Quiet conditions are then expected on Monday before winds ramp back 
up again Monday night to SCA level. Given 15-25 kt winds and cold 
air and water temps Monday night, there is also a chance of some 
light freezing spray. This is mainly for the LI Sound and close to 
the shore on the ocean waters where water temps will be coldest. If 
water temps trend colder than forecast, light freezing spray could 
be more widespread.

A Gale Watch has been issued for all Tuesday into Wednesday due a 
strong pressure gradient and several shots of cold air moving across 
the relatively warmer waters. Strong low pressure will reside across 
the Canadian Maritimes during this period with high pressure 
building in from the west. Gales could linger into Thursday, 
especially for the ocean waters.

&&

.HYDROLOGY...
No significant hydrologic issues anticipated through next weekend.

&&

.OKX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CT...None.
NY...None.
NJ...None.
MARINE...Small Craft Advisory until 10 PM EST this evening for ANZ331-
     332-335-338-340-345-355.
     Gale Watch from Tuesday morning through Wednesday afternoon 
     for ANZ331-332-335-338-340-345-350-353-355.
     Small Craft Advisory until 4 AM EST Monday for ANZ350.
     Small Craft Advisory until 1 AM EST Monday for ANZ353.

&&

$$

SYNOPSIS...JT/DW
NEAR TERM...JT
SHORT TERM...JT
LONG TERM...DW
AVIATION...JMC
MARINE...JT/DW
HYDROLOGY...JT/DW
