081 
FXUS61 KOKX 182110
AFDOKX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service New York NY
410 PM EST Tue Feb 18 2025

.SYNOPSIS...

High pressure builds to the southwest of the region through 
Wednesday. Deepening low pressure along the Mid Atlantic coast 
Thursday will pass well south and east of the area through Thursday 
night. High pressure will continue to dominate through the 
weekend. Weak low pressure approaching from the Great Lakes may 
then affect the region Monday night into Tuesday.

&&

.NEAR TERM /UNTIL 6 AM WEDNESDAY MORNING/...
Confluent zonal upper flow aloft across the region, with broad 
sheared polar trough extending from the northern plains to northern 
New england. At the surface, the tight pressure gradient slowly 
relents as high pressure builds towards the Mid Atlantic and large 
Canadian Maritimes low pressure lifts towards Greenland.

Pressure gradient will gradually weaken tonight as a result, with 
gusts falling back into the 15 to 25 mph range. Low 
temperatures will fall into the single digits far interior, to 
teens along the coast, with min windchills in the single digits
city/coast and single digits degrees below zero across the 
interior. 

&&

.SHORT TERM /6 AM WEDNESDAY MORNING THROUGH THURSDAY NIGHT/...

* Model consensus continues to point towards deepening low
  pressure tracking well south and east of the region Thursday,
  with a light dusting of snowfall the most likely scenario in
  response to approaching vigorous closed upper low. 

Confluent and zonal upper flow gradually amplifies Wed into Wed 
night ahead of a deepening northern stream closed low digging 
through the upper Mississippi River Valley and into the Ohio Valley. 
Good agreement on this vigorous closed low sliding just south 
of the region late Thursday into Thursday Night. Meanwhile a 
southern stream shortwave across the Lower Mississippi River 
Valley Wed AM (bringing snow to the southern plains and Mid 
Mississippi River Valley today) races towards the Mid Atlantic 
coast by Wed eve, with a second southern stream shortwave racing
around the digging northern stream closed low to the southern 
Mid Atlantic coast by Thu AM. 

As has been the case over the last 48 hours, overwhelming 
deterministic/ensemble model consensus is that the two streams 
never partially or completely phase until they are both well 
east of the region. The result is very good agreement in 
southern surface low pressure tracking to the SE US coast late 
Wednesday, and then intensifying as it tracks northeast and 
offshore Thursday into Thursday Night, 300- 450 miles se of Long
Island. The result being that most if not all the precip shield
with the offshore low remains to the SE of the region (perhaps 
clipping SE LI THU AM). The potential for a period of light snow
or snow shower activity will be more-so coincident with the 
approach/passage of the vigorous upper low and some moisture 
convergence along weak inverted troughing Thu aft/eve.

The few exceptions to this consensus are the 12z 32/12km NAM 
deterministic runs, which although fairly similar in upper 
dynamics through daybreak Thu AM, rapidly develop surface low 
pressure with an abrupt jog about 150 miles close to the coast 
THU AM compared to rest of model guidance. Interestingly this 
is not seen in the high- res 3km NAM CAM. A possible reason for 
the outlier NAM 12km/32km NAM surface solutions may be the 
convective parameterization schemes used in these runs (and not 
the 3km NAM) firing off abundant convection as the 150kt+ upper 
jet streak overspread the gulf stream and general low position.
The 12z 32/12km NAM solutions, for reference bring close 1/4" 
to 1/2" liquid to the coast (around 4 to 7" snowfall), but for 
the above mentioned reason and lack of support this scenario is 
considered an outlier. 

The 18z NAM has trended further south and less intense with the
surface low, but still indicating potential for a widespread 
1/10th to 1/4" qpf along the coast. This downward trend, in 
line with consensus guidance, is anticipated to continue over 
the next 24 hrs, but it is worth noting that this solution falls
in line with other reasonable worst case scenarios. The source 
of enhanced snowfall appears to be coming from enhanced lift 
from the left front exit region of a more cyclonically curved 
jet streak and NW enhancement of offshore low pressure precip 
shield. Outside of the 18z NAM 12km/32KM, a few 12z SREF NMMB, 
GEFS, and ECE members indicate some snowfall solutions in the 3 
to 5" range for eastern LI and extreme SE CT, in line with a 
reasonable worst case scenario.

So, current thinking is potential for a period of light snow or
snow showers Thu afternoon into Thursday evening in response to
the deepening closed low and weak inverted trough in vicinity. 
Snow accumulation generally less than an inch areawide, with 
potential for an inch or so for extreme SE portions of the area
where fringe of offshore snow shield may glance. Reasonable 
worst case WPC WSE and NBM (1 in 10 chance of occurrence), 
capturing 18z NAM 12/32km and other outlier ensemble members, 
would be a 2-5" snowfall across eastern LI and SE CT.

Remaining cold, region largely sub freezing with highs in the mid 
20s interior and upper 20s to around 30 city/coast on Wed and Thu. 
Winds are expected to be lighter than previous days with the high 
more established and a relaxed pressure gradient in response.

&&

.LONG TERM /FRIDAY THROUGH TUESDAY/...
Remaining somewhat breezy on Friday as high pressure continues to 
build in from the west. Dry conditions with high temperatures 5-10 
degrees below normal - in the lower and middle 30s. The high 
pressure ridge is expected to reach the east coast on Saturday. 
Winds will be light and shift west to southwest, allowing for milder 
high temperatures, but still a little below normal. 

A weak trough aloft shifts through the region late Saturday night 
into Sunday with perhaps some weak surface reflection. Moisture is 
lacking, and will go with a dry forecast for this period, however a 
sprinkle or flurry isn't completely out of the question. High 
temperatures on Sunday finally returning to normal at 40-45.

Weakening low pressure shifts east from the Great Lakes Region, 
likely passing to our north at some point Monday night into Tuesday. 
A leading warm front and trailing cold front may support enough lift 
to bring us some precip. Capped PoPs at slight chance for the time 
being. Precip would be mainly rain for coastal areas and a mix of 
rain and snow inland. 

&&

.AVIATION /21Z TUESDAY THROUGH SUNDAY/...
Strong high pressure gradually builds in from the west through 
Wednesday. 

Winds will be W to WNW around 20 kt with gusts 30-35 kt this evening 
before gradually diminish tonight. Gusts to around 20 kt may then 
briefly be possible after sunrise Wednesday morning before gradually 
subsiding into the afternoon.

 ...NY Metro (KEWR/KLGA/KJFK/KTEB) TAF Uncertainty...

No unscheduled AMD expected.

.OUTLOOK FOR 21Z WEDNESDAY THROUGH SUNDAY...

Wednesday night: VFR. 

Thursday: Mainly VFR. Chance MVFR or lower in light snow, mainly for 
the terminals east of NYC. NW winds G20-25kt at night. 

Friday: VFR. NW winds G20-25 kt.

Saturday: VFR.

Sunday: VFR.

Detailed information, including hourly TAF wind component forecasts, 
can be found at: https:/www.weather.gov/zny/n90

&&

.MARINE...
Winds expected to fall below Gale across eastern ocean waters 
through late evening, with conditions falling below SCA late 
Tonight on nearshore water and Wed AM for the ocean waters. 
Ocean seas (NW Wind wave dominated) expected to follow suit and 
fall below SCA Wed AM as well. 

Light freezing spray possible everywhere through Wednesday 
morning as well, but not anticipating it to be heavy enough to 
necessitate an advisory.

Next chance of SCA conditions late Thursday into Friday in wake of 
rapidly deepening offshore low pressure  as it tracks northeast up 
into the North Atlantic.

Advisory conditions continue through Friday for all waters, 
then will be limited to mainly the ocean through Friday night. 
Sub advisory conditions then prevail through the upcoming 
weekend with a weaker pressure gradient as a high pressure ridge
is followed by a weak trough. 

&&

.HYDROLOGY...
No hydrologic impacts are expected through the week.

&&

.TIDES/COASTAL FLOODING...
Low water conditions expected to improve for the evening low tide ( 
1 to 1.5 ft below MLLW) as offshore winds weaken a bit. Further 
improvement expected with Wed high tides with continued 
weakening of winds and rising of astro low tides. 

&&

.OKX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CT...None.
NY...None.
NJ...None.
MARINE...Small Craft Advisory until 7 AM EST Wednesday for ANZ331-335-
     338-345.
     Small Craft Advisory until 10 AM EST Wednesday for ANZ332-340.
     Gale Warning until 10 PM EST this evening for ANZ350.
     Small Craft Advisory until 1 PM EST Wednesday for ANZ353-355.

&&

$$

SYNOPSIS...JC/NV
NEAR TERM...NV
SHORT TERM...NV
LONG TERM...JC
AVIATION...MD
MARINE...JC/NV
HYDROLOGY...JC/NV
TIDES/COASTAL FLOODING...NV
