223 
FXUS61 KOKX 121743
AFDOKX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service New York NY
1243 PM EST Wed Feb 12 2025

.SYNOPSIS...
High pressure briefly builds in from the NE into this afternoon.
Another low pressure system passes through tonight into Thursday
morning. High pressure then builds back in during Thursday 
night through Friday before shifting offshore on Saturday. Low 
pressure then low moves through the region Saturday through 
Sunday. High pressure slowly builds back in early next week.

&&

.NEAR TERM /UNTIL 6 PM THIS EVENING/...
Mostly cloudy to overcast conditions will persist for the 
remainder of the daytime hours as the region lies between the 
departing system and low pressure beginning to develop across 
the southern states. High pressure builds to our NE due to upper
confluence, and the associated subsidence will keep us dry into
the afternoon. Highs in the middle to upper 30s are expected.

&&

.SHORT TERM /6 PM THIS EVENING THROUGH FRIDAY NIGHT/...
Primary low pressure center shifts from the Ohio Valley into the 
eastern Great Lakes Region tonight before passing well to our north 
during Thursday. Meanwhile, a weaker secondary low center shifts 
through Long Island during Thursday morning. This will bring snow to 
the forecast area this evening, then as a warm nose aloft pushes in 
and an onshore flow strengthens, the snow changes to a wintry mix 
before an eventual changeover to rain during the overnight hours 
through the first half of Thursday morning. Rain then tapers off 
late morning into the afternoon. GFS continues to be the coldest 
with thermal profiles aloft, but has at least trended closer to the 
rest of the models. Surface temp forecast is similar to the previous 
forecast, but overall has trended slightly warmer than 24-36 hours 
ago. The warm air aloft surges in during the overnight hours, 
leaving a fairly brief opportunity for freezing rain across some of 
the interior zones. There is enough confidence however that at least 
a light glaze of ice will follow a snow/sleet accumulation of up to 
an inch, warranting a Winter Weather Advisory for these zones. The 
advisory begins early this evening, and lasts into the Thursday 
morning commute. Outside of the advisory area, no freezing rain 
anticipated, and only a light coating of snow/sleet this evening 
before the changeover to rain. Above-normal high temperatures for 
Thursday in the mid 40s.

Dry and somewhat breezy Thursday night into Friday morning as high 
pressure builds in behind the departing storm. Its ridge axis shifts 
through here during Friday night with light winds and good 
radiational cooling conditions. Highs on Friday below normal in the 
lower and middle 30s. Lows Friday night in the 20s for coastal areas 
with teens inland and Pine Barrens Region.

&&

.LONG TERM /SATURDAY THROUGH TUESDAY/...
As for the precipitation event this weekend, a warm front will be 
followed by a strong low and associated occluded front. The strong 
low moves across Sunday into Sunday night along with its occluded 
front. Warm air advection makes for plain rain for entire region 
pretty much all of Sunday afternoon.

However, with onset (Saturday) and tapering off of precipitation 
(Sunday night), snow will be probable for all of the region. In 
between, mainly Saturday night into Sunday, warming aloft in
advance of the strong low will present a potential transition 
to a wintry mix, including freezing rain across the interior. 
There is uncertainty and subsequent forecasts may have northward
or southward shifts with this wintry mix and snow line and its 
timing.

Too much uncertainty at this point for any exact rain, snow and/or 
ice amounts.

Behind this front, strong cold air advection is expected with jet 
max south of the region. Coldest temperatures of the forecast period 
are expected for Monday and Tuesday of next week. Forecast highs 
struggle to approach the freezing mark and are well below
normal

&&

.AVIATION /18Z WEDNESDAY THROUGH MONDAY/...
A developing low approaches the region tngt, and passes thru 
the area on Thu.

Mainly MVFR thru 00Z, then IFR develops tngt. Improvement to
MVFR aft 12Z Thu, then VFR possible aft 22Z although confidence
is low attm.

Mixed snow and sleet, mainly lgt, develops late today and this
eve, changing over to all rain for most arpts in the 2-6Z time
period. An inch or less runway snow accums expected attm,
highest inland. The pcpn transitions to -ra/br/fg early Thu 
with the passage of the low, then gradual drying out in the 
aftn, especially aft 18Z.

NE/ENE flow thru tngt, becomes vrb in direction invof the low
Thu, then wly behind the low. Gusts to around 25kt expected late
Thu.


 ...NY Metro (KEWR/KLGA/KJFK/KTEB) TAF Uncertainty... 

Amendments likely for changing flight categories thru the TAF
period. Timing of the change to rain could need amending as
well. 

Little to no snow/sleet accums expected attm.

Peak gusts to around 30kt possible late Thu.


.OUTLOOK FOR 18Z THURSDAY THROUGH MONDAY... 

Rest of Thursday: Becoming VFR by 00-03Z Fri. W flow with peak
gusts to around 30kt possible. 

Friday: VFR. NW wind gusts to 30kt during the day.

Saturday - Sunday: Low pres could bring a wintry mix changing to
rain mainly late Sat into Sun. The rain could be locally hvy.
LLWS possible along with IFR.

Monday: VFR with gusty W flow.

Detailed information, including hourly TAF wind component forecasts, 
can be found at: https:/www.weather.gov/zny/n90

&&

.MARINE...
Advisory conditions during the daytime hours for only the ocean
with increasing easterly winds building seas over 5 ft, and 
winds gusting over 25 kt. The SCA has now been expanded to all 
marine zones for tonight with gusts over 25 kt. Cannot 
completely rule out a gale force gust this evening on the ocean 
waters either.

For the ocean waters, SCA conds continue through Thursday, and at 
least SCA conds for Thursday night as well. Didn't want to extend 
the SCA at this point as there is potential for some gales on the 
ocean late at night. Being this would be a late 4th to 5th period 
event, will allow the day shift to see new guidance and determine 
whether gale headlines are appropriate. Otherwise, after a lull in 
winds on the non-ocean waters, SCA conds become likely starting 
Thursday evening. Sub-SCA conditions then probable Friday night 
through Saturday night. SCA conditions potentially return for Sunday 
and Sunday night.

&&

.HYDROLOGY...
There are no hydrologic concerns through early next week.

&&

.TIDES/COASTAL FLOODING...
With full moon on today and SCA easterly flow tonight into Thu 
AM ahead of approaching frontal system, there is potential for 
scattered areas of minor coastal flooding with Thu morning high 
tide for vulnerable areas along Jamaica Bay, western Great South
Bay and western LI Sound, and more isolated along NY/NJ harbor.


Tidal departures needed for minor coastal flooding are
near 2 to 2.5 feet of surge. An average of model surge guidance
shows localized departures up to near 2 feet for parts of the
Long Island shoreline, particularly within the South Shore 
Bays as well as within the Southern Fairfield CT shorelines.
However, with the aforementioned SCA easterly flow leading into
the early Thursday high tide, the surge might end up being on 
the higher side and above surge model averages. Therefore, the 
minor coastal flooding may well be more widespread early
Thursday, especially within the South Shore Bays and along
portions of Western Long Island Sound.

Some beach flooding and escarpment possible during the Thu AM high 
tide with elevated water levels and e to w sweep of 4 to 6 ft 
breaking surf, but dune erosion threat appears limited at this
point.

&&

.OKX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CT...Winter Weather Advisory from 7 PM this evening to 9 AM EST 
     Thursday for CTZ005>008.
NY...Winter Weather Advisory from 7 PM this evening to 9 AM EST 
     Thursday for NYZ067>070.
NJ...Winter Weather Advisory from 7 PM this evening to 9 AM EST 
     Thursday for NJZ002-103.
MARINE...Small Craft Advisory from 6 PM this evening to 6 AM EST 
     Thursday for ANZ331-332-335-338-340-345.
     Small Craft Advisory until 7 PM EST Thursday for ANZ350-353-
     355.

&&

$$

SYNOPSIS...JC/DS
NEAR TERM...JC/DS
SHORT TERM...JC
LONG TERM...
AVIATION...JMC
MARINE...JC
HYDROLOGY...JC
TIDES/COASTAL FLOODING...
