622 
FXUS61 KOKX 111141
AFDOKX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service New York NY
641 AM EST Tue Feb 11 2025

.SYNOPSIS...
High pressure passes offshore today. Low pressure will pass well 
south of the area tonight. Another low pressure system moves through 
the area Wednesday night into Thursday, followed by high pressure 
Friday into Saturday morning. A third low then affects the region 
Saturday afternoon through Sunday with high pressure building back 
in on Monday.

&&

.NEAR TERM /THROUGH TONIGHT/...
Confluent zonal upper flow, featuring a unified southern and 
northern jet stream overhead and vort train stretching from 
northern Mexico toward the region today into tonight. 

At the surface, surface high pressure overhead slides east 
today, with a series of weak lows tracking east along a 
stationary front stretching from Texas towards the Mid Atlantic 
area. Good model agreement in low pressure developing along the 
Mid Atlantic coast this evening and then tracking well south and
east of the region tonight. 

Dry conditions today with highs several degrees below 
seasonable in the lower to mid 30s under departing high, and 
with increasing and lowering cloud cover ahead of approaching
low pressure.

Region continues to remain on northern periphery of precip 
shield, seemingly aided by right rear quad of upper jet lift and
modest 850-700mb frontogenetic lift. Model QPFs mainly ranging 
from 1 to 2 tenths across NYC/NJ metro and LI, to less than 1 
tenth QPF across the interior. NAM continues to have strongest 
frontogenesis (and wettest) guidance (up to .35"), with some 
support from ECMWF (up to .25") which has come in slightly 
wetter. Rest of medium range and high res guidance though 
remains on the drier side of distribution (0.05" to 0.15"). 
Based on this guidance weighting, no significant changes to 
going forecast, but 12z guidance trend will be monitored for 
subtle changes.

Thermal profiles are plenty cold for an all snow event and
support SLR higher than typical 10:1 climo, with forecast 
averaging around 2" snowfall across NYC/NJ metro and LI, around 
an inch across coastal CT and southern portions of LoHud and 
interior NE NJ, and less than inch for northern portions of 
LoHud and interior southern CT. Potential for SLR/snowfall rates
to be briefly enhanced btwn 03z and 06z across LI with 
indication of some weak instability in dendritic growth zone
coincident with short window of right rear quad of upper 
jet/frontogenetic lift. If this all comes together, this would 
bring potential for snowfall to be locally 3" across LI, and perhaps
NYC/NJ metro and extreme SE CT.

Steady snow tapers off from west to east late tonight, but some
indications that very light snow shower activity may continue 
Wed AM along the coast with onshore flow promoting low-level 
saturation as cold as -8C. This should be cold enough, with
potential salt nucleation, to allow for very light snow versus 
freezing drizzle/drizzle.

Lows generally in the upper 20s coast, lower to mid 20s 
interior. Any untreated roads along the coast, including NYC/NJ 
metro, will likely be snow covered Wed AM.

&&

.SHORT TERM /WEDNESDAY THROUGH THURSDAY/...
Confluent zonal upper flow become more amplified Wednesday into 
Wednesday Night ahead of longitudinally deepening troughing across 
the SW US shifting into the Central US, and then lifting NE through 
Mid-Mississippi River Valley and Great Lakes on Thursday.

At the surface, models in good agreement with high pressure nosing 
down from SE Canada and New England on Wednesday in wake of 
departing low pressure, to be quickly followed by developing 
southern low pressure tracking NE from the lower Mississippi River 
Valley on Wed, up through the Ohio Valley into eastern Great 
Lakes Wed night. Meanwhile, secondary low pressure develops 
along the Mid Atlantic coast along associated warm front Wed 
Night and lifts towards the region Thu AM. 

Cloudy conditions Wednesday, with Wed Am very light snow shower
activity likely drying out as high pressure noses in from the
north. Otherwise, seasonably cold with highs in the 30s. 

Deep layered lift of moist Gulf flow (+2 std PWAT) increases into
the region late Wed eve/Wed Night, over initially cold airmass 
in place, will allow for a brief onset of snow for NYC/NJ metro 
and coast Wed eve, before likely changing to rain after midnight
with strengthening onshore flow and boundary layer warming 
ahead of approaching warm front/coastal wave. Snow/sleet 
accumulation likely less than an inch, with no ice accum 
expected, before transition to rain. 

To the north and west of the I-95 corridor, after a quick 1-2" 
hit of snow on the front end (highest across higher elevation 
and farther interior of the coast), a growing 700 to 900 mb warm
nose after midnight will result in a transition to mixed precip
and then rain. NBM probs for greater than 2" of snow are less 
than 20 % at this point. Weak onshore flow or possible backed 
low-level flow (CAD), particularly for areas north of I-80, 
I-287, I-684,and I-84, will likely allow for a period of 
freezing rain late Wed Night into into Thu AM before transition 
to plain rain through early to mid morning as warm nose becomes
substantial. Ice accumulation of a few hundredths to less than 
a tenth of an inch possible across these areas. Advisories could
eventually be needed for these areas, with combined snow and 
ice presenting slippery/hazardous conditions for the Thu AM 
commute. 

Rain gradually taper off from w to e Thu AM, in wake of coastal low 
and occluded front. Highs in the mid 40s coast and lower 40s 
interior, with caa lagging until after cold frontal passage Thu
Night. No icing issues anticipated for Thu aft/eve commute.

&&

.LONG TERM /THURSDAY NIGHT THROUGH MONDAY/...
Low pressure departs Thursday night as high pressure builds in from 
the west. Expect a dry and breezy conditions into Friday morning as 
the gradient between these two systems remain rather tight. As the 
ridge axis builds over the area later Friday winds gradually 
lighten. Highs on Friday will be below normal with temperatures in 
the lower and middle 30s. 

A stronger and wetter system is then anticipated to approach from 
the SW on Saturday before passing through or nearby to our NW during 
the day Sunday. Precip becomes likely Saturday afternoon into 
evening and probably ends Sunday evening and overnight. Kept precip 
types simplified for the time being with rain, snow or a mix of the 
two. Too early to have much confidence in potential snow 
accumulations, but with that said, rain appears to be the dominant 
precip type with this storm.

High pressure builds back into the region to start the new work
week.

&&

.AVIATION /12Z TUESDAY THROUGH SATURDAY/...
High pressure over the region will move offshore early this 
afternoon. Low pressure along the Mid Atlantic coast passes to the 
south tonight.

VFR through most of the day with ceilings and vsbys lowering to 
MVFR then IFR in snow after 00Z Wed for the NYC and LI 
terminals. There is greater uncertainty as to whether the light 
snow makes it farther north into the Lower Hudson Valley and CT 
terminals. For the time, have only MVFR ceilings at KBDR, KGON, 
and KHPN. Further north at KSWF it may remain VFR. Conditions
start to improve after 09-12z, however conditions may remain
MVFR through the morning on Wednesday.

NW winds 5kt or less early this morning with outlying terminals
mainly light and variable. Winds this morning become WSW and 
will be under 10 kt, then back more to the SW in the afternoon. 
Flow weakens and becomes light and variable Tuesday evening 
before becoming NE late at night. 

 ...NY Metro (KEWR/KLGA/KJFK/KTEB) TAF Uncertainty... 

Amendments are likely for the timing of flight category changes in 
light snow this evening. The area will be on the northern periphery 
of low pressure that passes to the south tonight. This will likely 
result in some variability in subsequent forecasts. 

Snowfall amounts of 1-2 inches expected with locally up to 3
inches. 

.OUTLOOK FOR 12Z WEDNESDAY THROUGH SATURDAY... 

Wednesday: MVFR likely early. VFR possible into the afternoon. 
ENE gusts 15-20 kt at the coastal terminals in the afternoon.

Wednesday Night-Thursday: Snow/wintry mix developing Wednesday 
evening with IFR/LIFR. At the coast, wintry mix for a brief 
period before becoming plain rain. Further north, Wintry mix 
becoming plain rain Thursday morning. E gusts 15-20 kt Wednesday
night.

Friday: VFR. NW wind gusts 15-20 kt during the day.

Saturday: VFR early. MVFR or lower possible with rain/snow mix near 
coast and snow inland late. Becoming all rain at the coast by 
early evening, and a bit later at the inland terminals.

Detailed information, including hourly TAF wind component forecasts, 
can be found at: https:/www.weather.gov/zny/n90

&&

.MARINE...
Sub-Small Craft Advisory conditions are expected on all waters 
through tonight.

E/NE winds increase on Wednesday with marginal SCA gusts and seas 
likely by Wed afternoon. High confidence in SCA winds/seas on the 
ocean waters Wed Night with strengthening e flow ahead of
approaching low pressure system, and likely SCA gusts on 
nearshore waters. Winds likely fall below SCA and shift SW 
across all waters Thu AM with low pressure passage and occlude 
frontal passage, but ocean seas should remain at SCA in E/SE 
swell. 

The pressure gradient tightens enough Thursday night into Friday 
morning in wake of cold frontal passage for all waters to have 
advisory-level gusts during the period. Winds and seas subside 
throughout the day Friday with sub- advisory conditions even on 
the ocean waters by early evening. Southerly winds increase for 
Saturday, but conditions look to be short of advisory 
thresholds. A better chance of SCA conditions arrives Saturday 
night into Sunday.

&&

.HYDROLOGY...
At this time there are no hydrologic concerns through early next
week.

&&

.TIDES/COASTAL FLOODING...
With full moon on Wednesday and SCA easterly flow Wed Night 
into Thu AM ahead of approaching frontal system, there is 
potential for scattered areas of minor coastal flooding with Thu
morning high tide for vulnerable areas along Jamaica Bay, 
western Great South Bay and western LI Sound, and more isolated 
along NY/NJ harbor and its tidal estuaries. 

Some beach flooding and escarpment possible during the Thu AM 
high tide with elevated water levels and e to w sweep of 4 to 6
ft breaking surf, but dune erosion threat appears limited at 
this point.

&&

.OKX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CT...None.
NY...None.
NJ...None.
MARINE...Small Craft Advisory from 1 PM Wednesday to 7 PM EST Thursday 
     for ANZ350-353-355.

&&

$$

SYNOPSIS...BC/NV
NEAR TERM...NV
SHORT TERM...NV
LONG TERM...BC
AVIATION...BC
MARINE...BC/NV
HYDROLOGY...BC/NV
TIDES/COASTAL FLOODING...
