027 
FXUS61 KOKX 120811
AFDOKX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service New York NY
411 AM EDT Thu Jun 12 2025

.SYNOPSIS...
A cold front approaches today and moves across the region tonight. 
The front slows down and eventually stalls south of the region 
Friday into the start of the weekend. Low pressure eventually 
develops and approaches the region along this front. The cold 
front slowly works south into the Mid Atlantic into early next 
week. Waves of low pressure will track along the boundary during
this time. The front will then return northward as a warm front
toward the middle of next week.

&&

.NEAR TERM /THROUGH TONIGHT/...
A very warm to hot day is expected today with plenty of sun, and 
increased SW flow to boost low level warm air advection. Used a 
blend of MAV/MET/NBM guidance for high temperatures. Within and 
around the NYC Metro area, high temperatures are forecast to 
get around 90 degrees. Dewpoints are forecast to lower to the upper 
50s to near 60 with vertical daytime mixing, which is going to limit 
the apparent temperatures (i.e. heat indices) to not deviate much 
from the actual temperature.

Clouds increase late in the day ahead of an approaching cold front. 
There will be a slight chance of a shower or thunderstorm. Dry air 
will be present within the atmosphere in the low to mid levels. 
Convective coverage at most is expected to be isolated or a just a 
slight chance probability. Temporally the convection will be limited 
also, which will limit the flood threat.

The caveat though is that with the main upper level jet will be 
north and not too far away from the region. The higher winds aloft 
will present a chance for both increased divergence aloft and 
enhanced downbursts of wind. CAPE will be higher with the higher 
temperatures especially across western portions of the region. There 
will be a marginal risk for severe thunderstorms with primary threat 
being damaging winds.

With these details about the convection being stated, not all 
locations will get rain. Most locations may very well stay dry. 
Once the cold front moves across, more northerly flow develops, 
which will help usher in a cooler but still moist airmass. Later
tonight, there still could be a few showers but no 
thunderstorms are mentioned as stability in the low levels 
increases with the cooler surface temperatures.

&&

.SHORT TERM /FRIDAY THROUGH SATURDAY NIGHT/...
The cold front slows down south of the region where it will 
eventually stall Friday into the start of the weekend. The front is 
still forecast to be within close enough proximity for low pressure 
development along it to give chances for more showers during 
this time period. 

Friday looks to be the relatively drier day with less showers. 
Much of the day and much of the area just has a slight chance of 
showers. Friday night, chances for showers increase late with higher 
chances Saturday. This will be as low pressure develops in the Mid-
Atlantic and eventually passes south of the area Saturday along that 
stalled front.

Temperatures will be on a cooling trend as surface winds gain a more 
easterly component. This will allow for a cooler maritime airmass to 
encompass the area. Clouds will remain abundant. High temperatures 
forecast Friday are in the 70s to near 80 and then for Saturday are 
just in the mid 60s to near 70. This cooler air will make for less 
instability and thunderstorms were not mentioned in the forecast.

&&

.LONG TERM /SUNDAY THROUGH WEDNESDAY/...
A frontal boundary south of the area on Sunday will settle slowly 
south into the Mid Atlantic states into early next week before 
returning northward mid week. The challenging part of the forecast 
is timing/location of frontal waves along the boundary and the 
associated rainfall. Airmass is unstable Sunday in the lower to mid 
levels of the atmosphere, especially for the interior. However, 
shortwave energy passes to the north on Sunday and is followed by 
high pressure building across eastern Canada and into the Northeast.
Therefore, chance PoPs (30-50%) for Sunday into early next week with 
a chance of showers and embedded thunderstorms (best chances for any 
thunderstorms would be western portions of the forecast area as they 
will be less influenced by a stable regime from an easterly flow 
that develops). The front pushes farther south into Monday with even 
some drying of the airmass. Airmass should be stable enough to limit 
convection to mainly showers at this time. Global models are in good 
agreement taking weak low pressure off the Mid Atlantic coast early 
Tuesday, passing to the south and east. Forecast area will be on the 
northern periphery of the system and may be far enough removed from 
the stratiform rain shield. Rain chances will be lower during this 
time.

Temperatures Sunday through Monday will trend down through the 70s 
and in some cases may struggle to get above 70 with an easterly flow 
and cloud cover. Temperatures will then begin to climb back up to 
normal by Tuesday and even above by Wednesday as heights begin to 
rise and the front starts returning northward as a warm front. Lows 
will be close to normal, but night will be humid with dew points 
around 60.

&&

.AVIATION /08Z THURSDAY THROUGH MONDAY/...
Weak high pressure builds over the terminals through the 
daybreak. A weak cold front slowly approaches from the northwest 
today, moving into the Lower Hudson Valley late in the afternoon and 
through the remaining terminals during the evening. An isolated 
shower or thunderstorm is possible late this afternoon into the 
early evening. More of the higher resolution models are keying in on 
a line of showers and isolated thunderstorms moving through, so have 
added VCSH from around 00Z to around 06Z (+/- an hour or so, 
depending on terminal location, with eastern terminals occurring 
earlier). At this time however, there is a fair amount of 
uncertainty with exactly where and when these showers and isolated 
thunderstorms will occur. The chance for thunder significantly 
lowers after 03Z Thursday.

Generally VFR through the TAF period. Brief MVFR or lower in any 
showers or isolated thunderstorms that might move through this 
evening. 

A SW/WSW flow continues through the overnight, with a few locations 
becoming light and variable. A W flow develops this morning and 
increases into the early afternoon, becoming 10-15 kt with gusts up 
to 20 kt possible. The flow may start shifting to the SW near the 
coast early afternoon, with a sea breeze possible at KJFK by late 
afternoon. Sea breezes are also possible at KISP, KBDR, and KGON, 
though these may not be true sea breezes with a slight westerly 
component to the true sea breeze. 


 NY Metro (KEWR/KLGA/KJFK/KTEB) TAF Uncertainty...

Isolated shower/thunderstorm possible this afternoon and early 
evening. 

Timing of afternoon sea breeze at KJFK may be off by 1-3 hours, and 
possible that the sea breeze does not move into KJFK.


.OUTLOOK FOR 06Z FRIDAY THROUGH MONDAY... 

Tonight: VFR. There's a low chance (due to uncertainty in timing) 
that showers move through between 06Z-12Z, which may bring brief 
MVFR or lower conditions. 

Friday: Mainly VFR.

Friday Night-Saturday: MVFR or lower possible with a chance of 
showers and a few thunderstorms possible.

Sunday: MVFR or lower possible. Chance of showers with isolated 
thunderstorms possible.

Monday: MVFR or lower possible. Chance of showers.

Detailed information, including hourly TAF wind component forecasts, 
can be found at: https:/www.weather.gov/zny/n90

&&

.MARINE...
Pressure gradient is not expected to increase too much and
therefore winds will not increase too much also. Conditions in
the marine forecast for all waters stay below SCA thresholds
through the first half of the weekend. Winds and seas could very
well be higher in and near any thunderstorms but otherwise below
SCA conditions remain.

With a weak pressure gradient force expected across the forecast 
waters, as a frontal boundary remains in the vicinity of the ocean 
waters, winds and seas are expected to remain below SCA levels from 
Sunday through Monday.

&&

.HYDROLOGY...
Some minor flooding will be possible in low-lying, urban, and poor 
drainage areas especially with any locations receiving multiple
rounds of heavy rain. Layer precipitable waters are forecast to
increase to near 1.75 to 2 inches early Saturday. These higher 
PWAT values could be achieved late this afternoon into early 
this evening but early Saturday is when these higher PWAT values
are more probable. Otherwise, no hydrologic impacts are 
expected.

&&

.TIDES/COASTAL FLOODING...
A gradually diminishing southerly swell will result in another 
day of a moderate rip current risk today, but lowering to a low
risk on Friday.

&&

.OKX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CT...None.
NY...Air Quality Alert until midnight EDT tonight for NYZ067>075-
     078>081-176>179.
NJ...Air Quality Alert from 11 AM this morning to 11 PM EDT this 
     evening for NJZ004-006-103>108.
MARINE...None.

&&

$$

SYNOPSIS...JM/JP
NEAR TERM...JM
SHORT TERM...JM
LONG TERM...JP
AVIATION...JP
MARINE...JM/JP
HYDROLOGY...JM/JP
TIDES/COASTAL FLOODING...
