121 
FXUS61 KOKX 010404
AFDOKX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service New York NY
1204 AM EDT Fri Aug 1 2025

.SYNOPSIS...
A wave of low pressure travels along a slow moving frontal 
boundary through this morning. High pressure builds in behind 
the exiting system later today and remains in control through 
the first half of next week. Unsettled weather may return by 
late next week.

&&

.NEAR TERM /UNTIL 6 AM FRIDAY MORNING/...
With the frontal boundary getting just south of Long Island the
northeast flow picks up a bit more overnight with a more stable
environment. The last of any meaningful rainfall lifts out 
during the next few hours, with quarter inch rainfall rates or 
thereabouts still lingering but exiting the northern most 
portions of Southern CT. Also the last pulse of moderate rain / 
rain showers sweeps across southeastern portions of the CWA 
(mainly LI) over the next couple of hours. Otherwise the area 
will be left with a lighter and more stratiform rain for the 
remainder of the overnight. NW portions of the CWA completely 
dry out towards daybreak. NE winds will be gusty, especially 
further east and closer to the coast for the remainder of the 
overnight into the early morning hours. With the front now 
getting a bit further south have lowered dew point and 
temperatures slightly in the forecast hourly database for the 
next few hours. Less of a muggy feel, but still damp with 
showers / light rain with low temperatures down to mainly 60 to 
65.

&&

.SHORT TERM /6 AM FRIDAY MORNING THROUGH FRIDAY NIGHT/...
The front will continue to gradually sink south during the day 
on Friday as the low exits to the east. Any lingering rainfall 
Friday morning will come to an end, with likely only a few 
lingering showers across far eastern Long Island and southeast 
Connecticut by afternoon. Skies will clear through the day as 
high pressure begins to build in from the northwest. 

Temperatures will be noticeably cooler on Friday, with highs
only rising into the mid 70s. Under mostly clear skies, 
overnight lows will range from the mid 50s in typically colder 
outlying locations to the mid 60s in NYC.

&&

.LONG TERM /SATURDAY THROUGH THURSDAY/...
Surface high pressure and zonal flow aloft will result in dry
weather and seasonable temperatures through at least Tuesday.
Thereafter, an upper trough over the Midwest begins to push east
towards the region on Wednesday, with rain chances returning to
the area Wednesday night into Thursday.

Followed the NBM with little change during this period.

&&

.AVIATION /04Z FRIDAY THROUGH TUESDAY/...
A cold front will be situated south of the area through Friday
morning. High pressure begins to build in Friday afternoon.

Expect MVFR conditions to possibly transition to high end IFR 
tonight as showers move through the forecast area. There is a 
good deal of uncertainty in the visibility forecast, but 
visibility should lower when a heavier shower moves through. 
Conditions slowly improve Friday morning, and more so Friday 
afternoon with a return to VFR as the cold front slowly moves 
offshore and then high pressure builds in behind it.

NNE to ENE winds 10-20 kts with gusts to around 25 kts to start
out. Gusts may be more occasional through 04Z. Winds shift more
to the NE tonight and are expected to remain gusty into early 
Friday afternoon before diminishing by mid to late afternoon. 


  NY Metro (KEWR/KLGA/KJFK/KTEB) TAF Uncertainty...

Amendments likely for changes in flight rule categories through
Friday morning. Gusts may be more occasional through 04Z.

.OUTLOOK FOR 00Z SATURDAY THROUGH TUESDAY... 

Friday night: VFR. NE winds around 10 kt with gusts to around 15
kt early.

Saturday-Tuesday: VFR.

Detailed information, including hourly TAF wind component forecasts, 
can be found at: https:/www.weather.gov/zny/n90

&&

.MARINE...
A Small Craft Advisory remains in effect on all waters through 
Friday evening. Winds will become ENE this evening and increase,
with gusts to around 30 kt expected on the ocean waters and 25 
kt elsewhere. Seas will also begin to build, reaching 5 ft on 
the ocean by daybreak Friday. Winds will subside Friday evening,
but seas could remain elevated through Saturday morning. 
Thereafter, sub-SCA conditions are expected on all waters 
through early next week as high pressure remains in control.

&&

.HYDROLOGY...
Widespread rainfall amounts of 1/2 to 2 inches with scattered 
amounts of 3-4" have been observed across NE NJ, NYC, and Long 
Island this afternoon from the heavy rainfall and pockets of
flash flooding observed earlier. However, the risk of additional
heavy rainfall and flooding has since ended. Any additional
rainfall will be light to occasionally moderate with peak hourly
rainfall rates generally under a quarter inch and decreasing
through the night.

Dry weather returns Friday night with no hydrologic concerns 
through early next week.

&&

.TIDES/COASTAL FLOODING...
There is moderate to high risk for rip current development at 
the ocean beachfront, predominantly from a strong e to w 
longshore current from 5-7ft ENE wind waves. This will 
generally only produce a 1 to 3 ft breaking surf. A high risk 
has been forecast for the eastern LI beaches, based on 
climatology, and likely higher breaking wave in the 2 to 4 ft 
range with a bit more orthogonal impact. 

Wind swell is expected to subside a bit on Saturday, but 
becoming a bit more due easterly, maintaining a moderate to 
high risk of rip current development along the ocean beaches and
a more widespread 2 to 3 ft breaking surf.

&&

.OKX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CT...None.
NY...High Risk for Rip Currents from 6 AM EDT Friday through Friday 
     evening for NYZ081.
NJ...None.
MARINE...Small Craft Advisory until 8 PM EDT Friday for ANZ331-332-335-
     338-340-345-350-353-355.

&&

$$

SYNOPSIS...FEB
NEAR TERM...FEB/JE/JM
SHORT TERM...FEB
LONG TERM...FEB
AVIATION...JP
MARINE...FEB
HYDROLOGY...FEB/JM
TIDES/COASTAL FLOODING...
