134 
FXUS61 KOKX 070004
AFDOKX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service New York NY
704 PM EST Thu Feb 6 2025

.SYNOPSIS...
Low pressure departs northeast as a cold front moves through
early Friday. High pressure builds back into the area for late
Friday into Friday night. Low pressure, passing through the 
region, impacts the area Saturday night into Sunday afternoon. 
High pressure returns Sunday night into Monday. A series of lows
pass south of Long Island Tuesday through Thursday.

&&

.NEAR TERM /THROUGH FRIDAY/...
With light flow and a saturated boundary layer fog was
widespread across the region, with patchy of reducing
visibilities to around 1/2 mile. Updated the weather to include
the lower visibilities. Otherwise, the forecast is on track.

Low pressure exits northeast tonight as high pressure 
approaches from the west through Fri. A cold front from the 
departing low is expected to pass early Fri. 

Between the high and low, a strong pressure gradient will set up 
on Fri and remain tight until Fri evening until high pressure
becomes more centered over the area. 

NW winds will reach their peak daytime Fri after the frontal 
passage. Peak winds will be 15-20 mph with gusts 25-35 mph. 

While the precip has ended, some fog lingers will low overcast 
clouds. As winds start to pick up later tonight, the fog will 
clear and clouds will become more broken. 

SW winds will continue to lead to warming temperatures through
this evening with temperatures not cooling much or remaining 
steady into the night, from right around freezing to the upper
30s. Highs on Fri will be in the mid 30s to lower 40s. 

&&

.SHORT TERM /FRIDAY NIGHT/...
As high pressure centers over the area, NW winds go light and
skies become mostly clear, with a few increasing clouds closer
to daybreak. 

Colder temperatures will result, with lows from the mid teens to
mid 20s. 

&&

.LONG TERM /SATURDAY THROUGH THURSDAY/...
Confidence is increasing in active period with several chances
for wintry weather.

Key Points:

* Winter storm watches are in effect for the entire region from
  Saturday night through Sunday morning. Warning level snow 
  amounts are more likely across the Lower Hudson Valley and 
  southern Connecticut, with warning level snow possible across 
  northeastern New Jersey, New York City, and Long Island.

* The accumulating snow may transition to a wintry mix along 
  the coast Saturday evening into Saturday night.

* A series of lows may pass south of Long Island Tuesday 
  through Thursday with chances of snow.

A fast and nearly zonal flow continues across the region
Saturday through Thursday, bringing several lows across or 
near the region. Guidance continues to be fairly consistent with
the systems, especially for the low impacting the area Saturday
night into Sunday afternoon. The main low approaches late day 
Saturday, and transfers to the coast Saturday night. And with 
cold air in place, and a slightly southern track snowfall totals
have increased, especially across the inland regions. A wintry 
mix is possible along the coast as warm air advection increases 
Saturday night and above freezing air at 850mb nears the coast. 
Also, with the potential of drier air moving in at the mid and 
upper levels along the coast late Saturday night snowfall rates 
will not be optimal with drier air in the snow growth region. 
And, depending on the track of the mid level low colder air may 
remain near the coast and dry air intrusion will become more 
limited, and higher snowfall is possible. With strong upper 
level forcing inland and in the snow growth region, and less dry
air will lead to the higher snow totals across the interior. 
With higher confidence in reaching warning level snowfall total 
across the interior, and at least advisory level snow and sleet 
totals along the coast with the potential of reaching warning 
levels, Winter Storm Watches have been posted for the entire 
region Saturday night through Sunday morning.

A brief period of dry weather will be likely behind the storm
from Sunday night into Monday evening. Then with the fast flow
a series of lows may impact the region from late Monday night 
through Thursday, with additional snowfall possible, especially 
with the Tuesday system as cold air remains in place. 
Temperatures through the extended period remain below normal.

&&

.AVIATION /00Z FRIDAY THROUGH TUESDAY/...
Low pressure will move to the northeast this evening. A cold
front will move across early Fri. High pressure follows 
thereafter.

IFR/LIFR cigs will persist into much of tonight. Most of these
conditions are forecast to improve late tonight from west to
east. 

SW winds 5-10 kt (a little higher at KJFK) will persist until
late tonight, then as the front moves through winds should
become west late tonight, then increase to 15-20 kt with gusts
25-30 kt after 13Z-14Z. 

 ...NY Metro (KEWR/KLGA/KJFK/KTEB) TAF Uncertainty... 

AMD possible to refine timing of flight cat changes tonight. A
few gusts over 30 kt possible 15Z-22Z Fri. 

.OUTLOOK FOR 00Z SATURDAY THROUGH TUESDAY... 

Friday night: VFR. NW winds 10-15G20kt in the evening,
then diminishing to less than 10 kt. 

Saturday: VFR. 

Saturday night: Snow developing, with IFR vsby expected and LIFR 
vsby at times in moderate snow. Precip transitions to a wintry
mix for the NYC metros/KISP mainly after midnight. Accumulations
over 6 inches likely at KSWF/KHPN/KBDR/KGON. Lesser
accumulations of 3-5 inches likely at the NYC metros/KISP but
cannot rule out as much as 6 inches. 

Sunday: Snow ending early. Cond improving to VFR. NW winds
G15-20kt. 

Monday: Mainly VFR.

Tuesday: Chance of snow in the afternoon, becoming likely at
night. IFR cond likely, LIFR possible. Potential once again for
significant accumulation. 

Detailed information, including hourly TAF wind component
forecasts, can be found at: https:/www.weather.gov/zny/n90

&&

.MARINE...
No changes to winds and seas at this time.

SCA advisory is up tonight for ocean waters and up for all 
waters by daytime Fri. SCA drops early Fri night. Winds will 
exceed SCA criteria with gusts peaking around 30 kts and waves 
on the ocean 5-7 feet.

Marginal SCA conditions are possible on the ocean waters Sunday
into Sunday evening as low pressure impacts the waters. Then 
with high pressure building into the waters sub SCA conditions 
are expected late Sunday night into Monday night. Low pressure 
impacts the waters Tuesday, however, winds and seas are likely 
to remain below advisory levels Tuesday and Tuesday night.

&&

.HYDROLOGY...
A winter storm impacts the region Saturday night through Sunday
afternoon with total liquid of around 3/4 inches areawide. 
Otherwise, there are no hydrologic concerns through the forecast
period.

&&

.OKX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CT...Winter Storm Watch from Saturday evening through Sunday 
     morning for CTZ005>012.
NY...Winter Storm Watch from Saturday evening through Sunday 
     morning for NYZ067>075-078>081-176>179.
NJ...Winter Storm Watch from Saturday evening through Sunday 
     morning for NJZ002-004-006-103>108.
MARINE...Small Craft Advisory from 6 AM Friday to 1 AM EST Saturday for 
     ANZ331-332-335-338-340-345.
     Small Craft Advisory until 1 AM EST Saturday for ANZ350-353-
     355.

&&

$$

SYNOPSIS...BR/MET
NEAR TERM...BR/MET
SHORT TERM...BR
LONG TERM...MET
AVIATION...BG
MARINE...BR/MET
HYDROLOGY...BR/MET
