545 
FXUS61 KOKX 181903
AFDOKX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service New York NY
303 PM EDT Tue Mar 18 2025

.SYNOPSIS...
High pressure settles over the region through mid week. A 
frontal system approaches from the west Thursday, passing 
through Thursday night as a coastal low develops along the 
boundary. The system pulls away Friday as the low deepens, and 
high pressure briefly returns into Saturday. A weak area of low 
pressure moves through Saturday night, with another frontal 
system expected to approach early next week.

&&

.NEAR TERM /UNTIL 6 AM WEDNESDAY MORNING/...
Forecast on track this afternoon. Low pressure will slowly 
drift further offshore as an elongated ridge of high pressure 
builds into the region through this evening. Mostly clear skies 
will persist for much of the area except for eastern Long Island
and southeast Connecticut as high clouds from the offshore low 
drift northward. These clouds may thin out a bit this afternoon 
as the upper ridge continues to build overhead.

The weakening gradient this afternoon with high pressure 
building overhead should allow winds to weaken and become 
lighter with most gusts ending early this afternoon. Temperatures
will average above normal with widespread middle and upper 50s 
closer to the coast, with mainly lower and a few middle 60s 
further west and well inland.

Clear skies and light to calm winds will be the theme tonight. This 
should pave the way for chilly conditions with a good radiational 
cooling set up. Lows will range from near to just below freezing in 
the coolest spots and mainly 30s, with some lower and middle 40s in 
the more urban areas.

&&

.SHORT TERM /6 AM WEDNESDAY MORNING THROUGH WEDNESDAY NIGHT/...
Deep layer ridging will be over the area with sfc high pressure 
directly overhead. With the lack of any synoptic flow regime, look 
for diurnally driven sea breezes to initiate with daytime heating. A 
south to southeast flow will gradually push N and NW through the 
area during the afternoon. Max temperatures will be reached earlier 
in the day along coastal locations. There will be a large spread in 
temperatures by late afternoon with lower and middle 60s further 
inland, to near 50 for coastal communities.

For Wednesday night the winds will be light out of the SE. Some of 
the soundings are indicating a low level inversion and the 
possibility of the formation of low clouds / stratus, especially 
further east and south across the area. Have included low end chance 
of drizzle for southern portions of the area later at night. Minimum 
temperatures will likely range from the middle 30s well inland, to 
the lower 40s closer to the coast and in the NYC metro.

&&

.LONG TERM /THURSDAY THROUGH TUESDAY/...
Key Points: 

* Rain returns late Thursday, with a possible change to snow in some 
  areas as a frontal wave develops nearby and deepens into Friday 

* Gusty NW flow behind the system could exceed 40 mph at times Friday

* Next chance for widespread precipitation then looks to arrive 
  Monday into Tuesday of next week 

Ridging exits offshore to start the period ahead of an amplifying 
trough off to the west. Low pressure leading it cuts through the 
Great Lakes on Thursday, dragging a cold front toward the area 
Thursday night. With increasing southerly flow prior to the arrival, 
PWATs climb toward an inch, or around the 90th percentile and the 
max moving average for this time of year per SPC. Anticipate a solid 
stream of rain along and ahead of the front to move in by the 
evening Thursday, persisting overnight into Friday. As the front 
moves through, low pressure develops, aided by a southern stream jet 
and quickly deepens nearby. This leads to an increasing pressure 
gradient late Thursday night into Friday morning and strong NW flow 
on the back side of the system could help advect colder air down 
enough to allow a quick change from rain to snow early Friday 
morning across the interior, and perhaps even down to the coast for 
a brief period. A number of factors working against much in the way 
of accumulation, though a light accum is possible in the elevated 
interior should sufficient rates be realized with soundings hinting 
at a saturated dendritic snow growth zone for a period. The deep
trough over the Central- Eastern US moves over the area 
Friday, leading the surface low to exit northeast toward the 
Canadian Maritimes later Friday into Friday night. Total QPF 
appears to average around an inch for this system.

Gusty NW flow Friday with CAA helping deepen the mixing layer. Gusts 
could exceed 40 mph into the afternoon before gradually subsiding 
into Friday night. 

Conditions briefly calm into the start of the weekend as high 
pressure returns. Thereafter, a weak disturbance looks to pass thru 
late Saturday, perhaps bringing a few rain showers as it does so. 
Global guidance continues to advertise a more potent frontal system 
approaching from the west early next week, though timing and 
placement differences continue to offer a variety of solutions.

&&

.AVIATION /19Z TUESDAY THROUGH SUNDAY/...
VFR as high pressure to the west builds in through tonight, 
then slides just east on Wednesday.

NNW through NNE winds 10 kt or less will continue to diminish 
this afternoon. SE sea breeze already came in at KBDR, and it 
is possible that the NYC metros and other coastal terminals 
could see a light SE sea breeze this evening from about 00Z-04Z 
give/take an hour. After that a light NE flow should resume, 
becoming SE 5-10 kt in the afternoon. 

 ...NY Metro (KEWR/KLGA/KJFK/KTEB) TAF Uncertainty...

Terminals could see a period of light SE flow this evening from
about 23Z-24Z until 03Z-04Z. 

.OUTLOOK FOR 18Z WEDNESDAY THROUGH SATURDAY...

Wednesday afternoon: VFR. 

Wednesday night: IFR/LIFR cigs possible late at KISP/KGON, and 
MVFR elsewhere. 

Thursday: IFR/LIFR cigs possible late at KISP/KGON, and 
MVFR elsewhere, gradually improve to VFR by late morning or
midday. SE winds G20kt in the afternoon. 

Thursday night: IFR cond likely in rain. Precip could mix with 
snow late at KSWF. NW winds G20-25kt late from the NYC metros
north/west.

Friday: MVFR cond possible in the morning at the CT/Long Island
terminals. NW winds G30-40kt. 

Friday night: VFR. NW winds G20-25 kt in the evening. 

Saturday: VFR. SW winds G20kt in the afternoon at the NYC
metros. 

Sunday: VFR. NW winds G20kt.

Detailed information, including hourly TAF wind component
forecasts, can be found at: https:/www.weather.gov/zny/n90

&&

.MARINE...
Have cancelled the SCA on the non ocean waters where winds have
weakened below 25 kt. No changes were made to the SCA on the 
ocean. 

Winds on all waters will weaken into the afternoon, generally
settling to 20 kt or less. Ocean seas will remain elevated
through the afternoon, but should begin subsiding below 5 ft
this evening west of Fire Island inlet. Seas above 5 ft should
persist east of there through tonight. Sub small craft 
conditions are anticipated on Wednesday as high pressure settles
over the waters with a SE flow developing late in the day and 
into Wednesday night.

Ocean seas climb toward 5 or 6 ft Thursday afternoon, before 
increasing southerly flow ahead of a frontal system brings SCA 
conditions to all remaining waters late Thursday night or Friday 
morning as wind gusts exceed 25 kt. Gales possible on all waters 
Friday. Ocean seas peak 7 to 9 ft Friday, lowering below 5 ft by 
Saturday afternoon, then sub SCA conditions expected on all waters.

&&

.HYDROLOGY...
No hydrologic impacts are expected through the upcoming weekend.

&&

.OKX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CT...None.
NY...None.
NJ...None.
MARINE...Small Craft Advisory until 6 AM EDT Wednesday for ANZ350-353.
     Small Craft Advisory until 6 PM EDT this evening for ANZ355.

&&

$$

SYNOPSIS...JE/DR
NEAR TERM...JE/DS
SHORT TERM...JE
LONG TERM...DR
AVIATION...BG
MARINE...JE/DR/DS
HYDROLOGY...JE/DR
