307 
FXUS61 KOKX 161827
AFDOKX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service New York NY
227 PM EDT Fri May 16 2025

.SYNOPSIS...
Multiple surface troughs move through today and Saturday, followed 
by a cold frontal passage Saturday night. A secondary cold front 
moves through Sunday afternoon and Sunday night. Low pressure 
lingers in New England and into the Canadian Maritimes through 
Monday as high pressure pushes in. High pressure remains in 
control Tuesday into Tuesday night. Another frontal system impacts
the area Wednesday into Thursday.

&&

.NEAR TERM /THROUGH TONIGHT/...
Remnant MCS that had been advancing east through Pennsylvania 
has weakened substantially as it reached the local region, with
only a few lingering showers over western LI at 18Z. Largely 
dry conditions expected thru the remainder of the day, with an 
outside chance of a few isolated showers popping up as forcing 
remains rather weak with a slow moving boundary to the south 
over the Mid Atlantic, and parent low parent well off to the 
west. 

CAMs have been hinting at another MCS developing along the 
boundary tonight, before working east. Should this occur, it's
possible the remnants work into the region toward and after 3Z 
Sat, though this is far from a guarantee, and any local severe 
risk from this potential activity is low. Otherwise, likely see
areas of fog development once again into the night with light
flow and abundant surface moisture. The fog may become locally
dense depending on the evolution of any convective system to the
west.

&&

.SHORT TERM /SATURDAY THROUGH SUNDAY NIGHT/...
The upper level low continues approaching on Saturday with shortwave 
energy ejecting out ahead of it. Similar forecast challenges in the 
morning hours as there may be some sort of approaching convection 
left over from what happens in the Ohio Valley and Great Lakes 
region tonight. Then, once again, the area destabilizes ahead of a 
cold front. While CAMs are not overly excited about this either, 
there is potential for more widespread convection over the area 
Sunday afternoon given stronger forcing, instability(MLCAPE
approaching 2000 J/kg) and shear(0-6km bulk shear around 40kt).
This will also lead to more widespread chances of storms 
reaching severe thresholds. The SPC has placed the western half 
of the area in a slight risk. As of right now, the main threat 
is damaging wind gusts. Model hodographs will have to be watched
as there is some indication of favorable low level shear and an 
isolated tornado can not be ruled out. Latest Nam3km and HRRR
show around 150 m2/s2 of effective inflow layer SRH.

The cold front moves through Saturday night and then a secondary cold 
front moves through Sunday and Sunday night. PoPs lower 
significantly, but there will be additional slight chances of 
showers across the interior Sunday afternoon with the upper low 
above us.

&&

.LONG TERM /MONDAY THROUGH FRIDAY/...
Mostly sunny skies take over as high pressure centered over or near 
Hudson Bay in Canada gradually noses into the area Monday into 
Tuesday night, keeping the area dry. To our northeast, low pressure 
will continue to exit into New England and into the Canadian 
Maritimes through. This will lead to breezy W/WNW winds from an 
increased pressure gradient through Monday. 

A frontal system from the Great Plains then moves into the Ohio or 
Tennessee River Valleys on Tuesday, moving through or in the 
vicinity of our region Wednesday into Thursday. Expecting showers 
during this timeframe. Too soon to call chances for thunderstorms. 
Model guidance still varies with timing, magnitude, and track of 
this frontal system. Have gone with chance POPs Wednesday into 
Thursday as a result. 

Temperatures look to cool each day in the long-term period, 
especially towards Wednesday and Thursday with clouds and rain 
limiting any heating. Highs on Monday will be in the upper 60s to 
lower 70s and by Thursday, with will be in the upper 50s to lower 
60s. Overnight lows will range from the middle 40s to lower 50s.

&&

.AVIATION /18Z FRIDAY THROUGH WEDNESDAY/...
Weak low pressure with a surface trough near the area today, 
followed by a warm front moving through Saturday. Cold front 
follows for Saturday evening.

Showers and embedded thunderstorms moving farther southeast 
away from the local area. Mainly dry conditions expected 
through early this evening. Two additional rounds of 
precipitation in the TAF period. Next one is coming up late this
evening into overnight, just mainly showers north and west of 
NYC. Next one after that is Saturday afternoon into early 
Saturday evening which is when showers and thunderstorms will be
possible.

Conditions initially this afternoon have improved to mainly VFR
with some lingering isolated MVFR and below. Tonight, IFR to 
LIFR with the redevelopment of low clouds and fog. These low 
conditions will linger into Saturday morning. Some improvement 
is expected to close out the TAF period.

Southerly flow near 5-10 kts expected through much of the TAF
period. Southerly winds pick up to near 10-15 kt with some gusts
up to 20 kt Saturday afternoon.


 ...NY Metro (KEWR/KLGA/KJFK/KTEB) TAF Uncertainty...

Timing of IFR, MVFR, and LIFR changes could be a few hours off 
from TAF.

VLIFR possible early Saturday, 08-12Z.

.OUTLOOK FOR 18Z SATURDAY THROUGH WEDNESDAY...

Saturday: Mainly VFR but MVFR possible in the afternoon with 
chance of showers, and a slight chance of thunderstorms with 
MVFR conditions.

Sunday: Mainly VFR. Slight chance of showers inland with MVFR
possible. W winds G20-25kt.

Monday - Tuesday: VFR. Monday NW winds G20-25kt day into evening.

Wednesday: MVFR or lower with showers likely, mainly at night. E
wind gusts 15-20 kt.

Detailed information, including hourly TAF wind component forecasts, 
can be found at: https:/www.weather.gov/zny/n90

&&

.MARINE...
Areas of fog return tonight, potentially becoming dense again
and persisting into mid Saturday morning.

Winds and waves remain below SCA criteria through Sunday for the
most part. There looks to be brief potential for 25 kt gusts
Sunday afternoon, mainly for NY Harbor, western Sound and
western Ocean. During this time, seas on the ocean could also
approach 5 ft. Outside of this, there is potential for showers 
and thunderstorms each day, with potential for severe 
thunderstorms Saturday afternoon. Winds and seas will be locally
higher in any storms.

Winds are expected to remain below SCA criteria for Monday. However, 
there is a low to medium chance of 25 kt wind gusts over the ocean 
waters with low pressure over the Gulf of Maine creating an 
increased pressure gradient. Thereafter winds and waves should 
remain below SCA criteria due to lack of any strong pressure 
gradient across the waters.

&&

.HYDROLOGY...
Locally heavy downpours are possible with any thunderstorms this
afternoon, and again Saturday aft/eve. While the overall flash 
flood threat is low, the brief heavy rainfall could lead to 
minor nuisance flooding in urban and poor drainage areas. 

There are no other hydrologic concerns through the end of next 
week.

&&

.OKX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CT...None.
NY...None.
NJ...None.
MARINE...None.

&&

$$

SYNOPSIS...JP/JT
NEAR TERM...DR/JT
SHORT TERM...JT
LONG TERM...JP
AVIATION...JM
MARINE...DR/JP/JT
HYDROLOGY...DR/JP/JT
