795 
FXUS61 KOKX 191127
AFDOKX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service New York NY
727 AM EDT Mon May 19 2025

.SYNOPSIS...
Low pressure continues to slowly move off the northern New England 
Coast today and sends a surface trough through the area. High 
pressure noses in from the north thereafter and remains in control 
through Tuesday evening. Deepening low pressure passes south of
the area Wednesday into Thursday. The low then moves northeast 
and into the Canadian Maritimes Thursday night through Saturday.
High pressure builds in Saturday night and Sunday.

&&

.NEAR TERM /THROUGH TONIGHT/...
Vertically stacked slow moving low pressure continues to exit the 
northern New England Coast today. In the upper levels, a quick 
moving shortwave will swing through along with a surface 
trough. Not expecting any notable weather from these features.

The pressure gradient weakens slightly today, but with daytime 
mixing expecting gusty northwest winds again. The winds aloft 
have lowered slightly so gusts will peak out a few mph lower 
than yesterday, mainly 25 to 35 mph. Despite ample sunshine, the
cooler pattern we are still in will result in highs in the 
upper 60s to mid 70s again.

Skies remain clear tonight as high pressure noses in from the 
north. Thinking winds still stay up just enough to limit the 
effects of radiational cooling. Current low forecast is lower 
40s across the interior and upper 40s to lower 50s elsewhere. If
winds end up lighter than forecast, thinking worst case for the
interior is dropping to the upper 30s, so for now not expecting
any frost formation.

&&

.SHORT TERM /TUESDAY THROUGH WEDNESDAY/...
Winds become light and variable on Tuesday with a weak pressure 
gradient over the area. There once again may be a weak shortwave and 
surface trough that moves through the area, but not expecting 
anything other than some clouds out of this.

Tuesday will be the last dry day before a frontal system brings 
several days of unsettled weather to the area. There is still a 
decent amount of uncertainty as the models try to resolve two areas 
of low pressure and how they interact. Low pressure moves into the 
Ohio River Valley Tuesday night and another low forms off the Mid-
Atlantic Coast Wednesday. The question is how these interact as some 
guidance shows the two low centers remaining separate and 
others have one being absorbed. Regardless plenty of clouds and 
rain can be expected. PoPs start after midnight Tuesday night 
and become likely by 8am Wednesday. Through the short term
period, the rain will be more light to locally moderate.

&&

.LONG TERM /WEDNESDAY NIGHT THROUGH SUNDAY/...
Key Messages:

 * A frontal system impacts the region Wednesday through Saturday.

 * Most rainfall, with periods of moderate intensity, will occur 
Wednesday into Thursday. Potential for local urban and poor drainage 
flooding.

 * An upper-level trough, along with a surface trough from the 
departing low, leads to continued clouds and chances of   showers 
Thursday night through Saturday.

Once again the forecast remains rather consistent from previous 
forecasts with the approach of a frontal system impacting the region 
mainly Wednesday night into Thursday night, with continued chances 
of showers into Saturday.

An upper level trough deepens across the upper midwest and into the 
Great Lakes region Wednesday night and Thursday with a closed low 
developing. The upper low will be slow to depart to the northeast as 
pieces of energy rotate through the low through Saturday. The upper 
trough begins to weaken and move northeast late Friday night into 
Saturday. Meanwhile, at the surface low pressure moves out of the 
Great Lakes and into the region by Wednesday night. A deepening low 
along the southeastern coast Wednesday night and Thursday becomes 
the primary low, that then passes northeast of the region Thursday 
night. A developing low level jet and increased Atlantic moisture 
entraining into the low, with precipitable water values increasing 
to around 1 inch, will lead to periods of moderate rainfall by late 
Wednesday night and continuing into Thursday morning. This will 
bring the potential for urban and poor drainage flooding. See the 
Hydrology section for more information.

Thursday night, the low moves northeast of the area with the 
precipitation beginning to taper off as winds to turn back N/NW, 
bringing in somewhat drier air and slight cold air advection aloft. 
With a lingering upper and surface trough, chances of precipitation 
remains into Saturday. Confidence in this is low, given it's 
possible that dry air and weak cold air advection aloft could be 
enough to hinder any showers from developing. 

Saturday night into Sunday, the upper level trough finally departs 
the region to the east, leading to dry and mostly clear conditions.

&&

.AVIATION /12Z MONDAY THROUGH FRIDAY/...
Low pressure slowly moves away into the Canadian Maritimes through 
today. High pressure builds in from the north tonight.

VFR.

NW winds 15-20kt with gusts mainly 25-30kt, with occasionally 
higher gusts, into the afternoon. Late day winds become more 
NNW. Winds and gusts diminish this evening, before ending 03Z 
to around 06Z. Once gusts end winds become northerly. 


 ...NY Metro (KEWR/KLGA/KJFK/KTEB) TAF Uncertainty...

No unscheduled amendments.

.OUTLOOK FOR 12Z TUESDAY THROUGH FRIDAY...

Tuesday: VFR. 

Wednesday: MVFR or lower with showers likely, especially in the 
afternoon into the night. E wind gusts 15-25kt.

Thursday: MVFR to IFR in showers. E/NE winds G20-30kt, highest 
across southeastern Connecticut and eastern Long Island.

Friday: MVFR possible, especially in the morning. Chance of showers.

Detailed information, including hourly TAF wind component forecasts, 
can be found at: https:/www.weather.gov/zny/n90

&&

.MARINE...
The Small Craft Advisory has been extended until midnight
tonight for all waters as 25 kt gusts may linger. Today, expect
25 to 30 kt gusts. Sub-SCA conditions then expected the rest of
tonight through early Wednesday.

With the approach of a frontal system during Wednesday, an easterly 
flow will be increasing, and by late day SCA conditions are likely 
to develop on the ocean waters. With the increased and persistent 
east flow Wednesday night SCA conditions become likely across all 
the forecast waters Wednesday night and continue into Thursday.
The is a chance that gusts reach gale force on the ocean waters east 
of Fire Island Inlet late Wednesday night into Thursday morning 
depending on the strength and track of a developing low along the 
coast. 

As the low tracks northeast of the area Thursday night, and begins 
to weaken, a northerly flow develops and winds diminish west to 
east, falling below advisory levels Thursday night. However, ocean 
seas are likely to remain elevated through Friday.

Winds and seas across the forecast waters will remain below advisory 
levels Friday night through Saturday night as low pressure continues 
to weaken and track to the northeast and high pressure builds to the 
west.

&&

.HYDROLOGY...
Periods of moderate rainfall are possible from late Wednesday into 
Thursday. There is the potential for 1 to 1.5 inches of rainfall 
with locally higher amounts. The area is in a marginal risk for 
excessive rainfall with the main threat local poor drainage and 
urban flooding.

&&

.TIDES/COASTAL FLOODING...
A strengthening and persistent E/NE flow Wednesday through Thursday 
could bring widespread minor coastal flooding to the area. The two 
high tide cycles of concern as of now are the Wednesday 
night/Thursday morning cycle and the Thursday afternoon cycle. There 
is a bit higher confidence with the first cycle, as winds for the 
second cycle may be northerly enough to give some coastal areas 
a more offshore flow.

&&

.OKX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CT...None.
NY...None.
NJ...None.
MARINE...Small Craft Advisory until midnight EDT tonight for ANZ331-332-
     335-338-340-345-350-353-355.

&&

$$

SYNOPSIS...MET/JT
NEAR TERM...JT
SHORT TERM...JT
LONG TERM...MET
AVIATION...MET
MARINE...MET/JT
HYDROLOGY...MET/JT
TIDES/COASTAL FLOODING...
