968 
FXUS61 KOKX 250748
AFDOKX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service New York NY
348 AM EDT Fri Apr 25 2025

.SYNOPSIS...
High pressure moves offshore today as a frontal system approaches 
tonight and impacts the waters on Saturday. High pressure builds 
during the second half of the weekend and settles nearby Monday 
into Tuesday. The high will give way to the next frontal system 
late on Tuesday, which moves across the area through Wednesday.
High pressure may return next Thursday.

&&

.NEAR TERM /THROUGH TONIGHT/...
A frontal boundary locks up to the north today across Upstate NY and 
Northern New England as high pressure at the surface gets offshore. 
Mid and upper level ridging takes shape through the early afternoon, 
with the ridge axis getting further east late in the day and towards 
evening. This will lead to a fair amount of sunshine to start, but 
with ridging shifting east later today expect more in the way of mid 
level clouds during the afternoon. Temperatures will continue to 
average above normal. There will be more of a departure from normal 
with respect to temperatures across interior locations with a 
southerly trajectory to the low level winds. This means coastal 
sections will experience relatively cooler temperatures with mainly 
60s, with middle and upper 70s to around 80 across western and 
interior locations.

For tonight clouds lower with some shower activity becoming more 
likely towards and after midnight, although a few showers cannot be 
completely ruled out during the evening across the western half of 
the area. As the night wears on look for more widespread shower 
activity with the approach of a pre-frontal trough and elevated warm 
front. Overall, light shower activity takes shape from warm 
advection during the overnight and into early Saturday morning with 
likely and categorical PoPs after 06z. With dew points slowly 
climbing though the 50s on a southerly flow it will be quite mild 
and well above normal temperature wise with NE NJ and the NYC metro 
hovering around 60 degrees.

&&

.SHORT TERM /SATURDAY THROUGH SUNDAY/...
Look for the more widespread shower activity to take place during 
the morning hours. Towards the late morning and mid day the 
convective allowing models (CAMs) indicate a break in the action 
with the pre-frontal trough and warm advection related shower 
activity getting off to the east. This should get followed by a 
relative break in the action. The actual cold front then begins to 
swing through during the late afternoon and evening. Most CAMs have 
scattered shower activity associated with and just ahead of the cold 
front with enhanced reflectivity and possible convection with a few 
thunderstorms possible. At this time it appears that any convection 
would be sub-severe with minimal CAPE indicated in BUFKIT profiles 
for the most part. The NAM 3km has indicated around 1000 to 1500 
J/kg in CAPE, but this can often be overdone and is a known bias in 
the NAM 3km. For now carrying isolated and slight chance wording 
with respect to any thunderstorm activity. The winds will gust just 
ahead of the front out of the SW up to 20 to 30 mph along some 
coastal sections. The winds with the cold frontal passage quickly 
shift to the WNW with a brief period of 30 to 35 mph gusts possible 
as deeper mixing gets established quickly Saturday evening. Rainfall 
totals are expected to average anywhere from a half inch to one inch 
across the area. Drier air pushes in Saturday night with dew points 
falling through the 40s. By Sunday morning it will be brisk and 
noticeably cooler with widespread middle and upper 40s and NW winds 
gusts to around 25 mph.

During Sunday the upper level gyre / low swings by to the north 
along the St. Lawrence River Valley. With a cold pool aloft expect 
fair weather cumulus to develop during the day, with the outside 
chance of a rogue shower or two across northern sections in closer 
proximity to the upper level low and steeper mid level lapse rates. 
Much of the column will be quite dry so it should remain primarily 
dry, but cannot totally rule out some sprinkles or a quick brief 
shower up to the north. Brisk and cool despite pockets of late April 
sunshine with temperatures in the upper 50s to lower 60s which will 
be around 5 degrees below average for the time of year. Winds may 
gust to 30 to 35 mph at times as Canadian high pressure builds from 
the Great Lakes and Ohio Valley.

&&

.LONG TERM /SUNDAY NIGHT THROUGH THURSDAY/...
No major changes were made to the forecast from Sunday night
through next Thursday. 

Closed upper low and its associated trough will move off the New
England coast Sunday night. Ridging will then build over the 
region through Tuesday. The ridge slides offshore by Tuesday
night as the next progressive shortwave trough approaches. The
trough will swing across the northeast Tuesday night through
Wednesday leaving behind a flatter ridge for next Thursday. At
the surface, a lingering surface trough from Sunday pushes east
as high pressure builds overhead Sunday night through Monday.
The high will shift offshore on Tuesday as the aforementioned
shortwave sends the next frontal system towards the area. The
system pushes through on Wednesday followed by the potential of
another high pressure for next Thursday.

Much of the long term will remain dry with the only chance of
showers occurring Tuesday night into Wednesday. The main area of
forcing passes our area to the north and moisture is limited
with the system. The latest model consensus probabilities 
remain very low and generally 20-30 percent, highest well NW of 
the NYC metro. Some weak instability is noted Tuesday evening 
across the interior, so will carry a slight chance of thunder 
for these locations. Otherwise, dry conditions likely prevail
into next Thursday.

Temperatures look to remain above normal through Wednesday with
Tuesday and Wednesday being the warmest days. Highs on Tuesday 
should reach the middle and upper 70s away from the NYC metro on
NW and upper 60s and lower 70s closer to the coast. Winds are 
likely to become more W on Wednesday allowing the entire area to
reach the 70s with temperatures close to 80 in NE NJ.
Temperatures may fall back closer to average levels on Thursday
in the 60s.

&&

.AVIATION /08Z FRIDAY THROUGH TUESDAY/...
High pressure remains offshore through Friday. A frontal system
will impact the terminals Friday night into Saturday. 

VFR through 00z Saturday. Conditions should then begin lowering
to MVFR 02-06z with IFR becoming likely early Saturday morning.
There is a chance for LIFR conditions late Friday night into 
early Saturday morning. Showers are possible in the evening, but
will become widespread overnight. 

SW winds will continue to weaken early this morning and should
be under 10 kt after 08z. SW winds increase after day break and
shift towards the S-SE the rest of the morning into the afternoon. 
Speeds will become 10-15 kt with gusts around 20 kt possible, 
especially away from the immediate coast. Gusts should
end in the evening, but S-SSE sustained winds 10-13 kt likely
continue. 

 ...NY Metro (KEWR/KLGA/KJFK/KTEB) TAF Uncertainty...
Gusts at KEWR, KLGA, and KTEB may be occasional this afternoon.

Timing of lowering flight categories and SHRA tonight may be 
off by 1-3 hours. LIFR conditions possible early Saturday 
morning. 

LLWS possible at KJFK and KLGA with SW winds 45-50 kt at 2kft 
Saturday morning.

.OUTLOOK FOR 06Z SATURDAY THROUGH TUESDAY...

Saturday: IFR/MVFR with showers in the morning. Showers possible
with an isolated thunderstorm in the afternoon and evening. 
S-SSW gusts 15-25 kt, becoming W-NW late day/evening. LLWS
possible, mainly east of the NYC metro terminals.

Sunday: VFR. NW gusts 25-30 kt possible.

Monday: VFR.

Tuesday: VFR. SW gusts 20-25 kt possible in the afternoon and
evening.

Detailed information, including hourly TAF wind component forecasts, 
can be found at: https:/www.weather.gov/zny/n90

&&

.MARINE...
With high pressure getting east of the waters sub advisory 
conditions will prevail through this afternoon with ocean seas not 
much above 2 to 3 ft. By late this afternoon into this evening the 
pressure gradient increases some with southerly gusts potentially 
approaching 20 kt for some of the southern coastal waters, 
especially further west. Small craft conditions will become 
increasingly likely during Saturday on the ocean with seas climbing 
to around 5 to 6 ft, and wind gusts approaching 25 kt for the 
southern and eastern bays of LI ahead of an approaching cold front. 
SW winds will switch quickly to the W, then NW from west to east 
with the passage of a cold front by the late Saturday afternoon and 
evening. A small craft advisory has been issued for Saturday for the 
eastern and southern bays of LI along with far eastern LI Sound. For 
the ocean the small craft advisory goes into Saturday night. The 
winds switch quickly to the WNW Saturday evening, and then become 
more NW on Sunday with small craft gusts likely across all waters 
through the day.

A weak pressure gradient over the waters will lead to conditions
below SCA levels Sunday night through Tuesday morning.
Increasing S winds will occur Tuesday afternoon leading to the
next potential SCA Tuesday night into Wednesday on the ocean. 

&&

.FIRE WEATHER...
A special weather statement for potential wild fire spread has been 
issued for NE NJ until 7 pm this evening as minimum RH levels 
approach 30 percent by late morning and afternoon. Southerly winds 
also increase with gusts up to 20 mph. The risk of fire spread
ends during the evening with as RH levels climb and a wetting
rain develops later at night.

&&

.HYDROLOGY...
There are no hydrologic concerns throughout the forecast period.

&&

.OKX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CT...None.
NY...None.
NJ...None.
MARINE...Small Craft Advisory from 6 AM to 8 PM EDT Saturday for ANZ332.
     Small Craft Advisory from 6 AM to 6 PM EDT Saturday for ANZ340-
     345.
     Small Craft Advisory from 6 AM Saturday to 6 AM EDT Sunday for 
     ANZ350-353-355.

&&

$$

SYNOPSIS...JE/DS
NEAR TERM...JE
SHORT TERM...JE
LONG TERM...DS
AVIATION...DS
MARINE...JE/DS
FIRE WEATHER...
HYDROLOGY...JE/DS
