203 
FXUS61 KOKX 121814
AFDOKX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service New York NY
214 PM EDT Sat Jul 12 2025

.SYNOPSIS...
High pressure remains along the New England coast into Sunday
morning, then drifts east through Monday as a cold front moves
into the region late Monday. The frontal boundary likely 
remains just offshore through mid week. Another frontal system 
may then impact the area towards the end of the week.

&&

.NEAR TERM /THROUGH TONIGHT/...
Surface high pressure remains along the New England coast
tonight with a light flow across the region, and a warm and
humid airmass remaining in place. Any convection across the
Lower Hudson Valley will be weakening and dissipating early this
evening with the loss of daytime heating. Any storms that do
develop will be slow moving, and have the potential to produce
briefly heavy rainfall. With the airmass in place, and a light
southerly flow, low clouds are expected to develop along and
offshore of the coast, and drift inland late tonight into Sunday
morning.

&&

.SHORT TERM /SUNDAY THROUGH MONDAY/...
Any low clouds and possibly fog will dissipate Sunday morning 
as low level mixing increases.

The surface high off the New England coast drifts east late 
Sunday into Monday as the upper ridge axis moves offshore and 
heights gradually fall with the approach of an upper trough. 
Much of the energy with the trough will be passing to the north 
during Monday, and the trough weakens. A weak, and weakening
cold front moves into the region either late Monday or Monday
evening. And a warm and humid airmass remains through Monday,
becoming unstable late morning into the afternoon with CAPE
increasing to over 1000 J/kg. Precipitable water values will be
around 2 inches Monday. With the weakening front, and little
forcing convection will be more scattered, and opted for areal
coverage wording. There will once again be the potential for any
of the storms to produce briefly heavy rainfall, however the
steering flow does increase Monday, and storms are expected to
be moving southeast 20 to 25 mph.

&&

.LONG TERM /MONDAY NIGHT THROUGH SATURDAY/...
***Key Points***

*While still some uncertainty, there is at least potential for 
 a heat wave Tuesday through Friday for many areas with Max Heat
 Index values each day between 95 and 100 (Heat Advisory 
 criteria).

*Relatively active pattern with chances for several days of 
 afternoon showers and thunderstorms.

A cold front will just be passing through at the start of the long 
term period. This boundary will likely stall just offshore and 
linger for several days. A frontal system may then impact the area 
later in the week. Aloft, the pattern stays the same through the 
period. Although we are under some high heights, we are somewhat on 
the eastern end of a broad upper level trough centered over central 
Canada and few shortwaves likely pass through.

With strong Bermuda high in place, a S/SW flow will allow plenty of 
moisture to be sent our way. This combined with above normal high 
temperatures brings some potential for a heat wave. NBM dewpoints 
are likely too high but even after manually lowering afternoon 
dewpoints when mixing is expected still seeing some 95-100 heat 
index values. However, there still is uncertainty especially given 
the potential for convection and slight inconsistencies in a late 
week frontal system among the guidance.

Too early to talk specifics when it comes to severe or flooding 
concerns with the aforementioned convection. These details will be 
ironed over the next few days. There is plenty of moisture around 
with pwats 1.75-2.00+ for much of the period so any convection that 
does develop will likely be able to produce heavy downpours. As for 
severe, while we are pretty unstable, shear looks weak through much 
of the period.

&&

.AVIATION /18Z SATURDAY THROUGH THURSDAY/...
Weak high pressure remains in place offshore through tonight.

Mainly sct cigs around 3 kft for most terminals this afternoon, 
though IFR likely persists at KGON into late day. Brief MVFR conds 
possible elsewhere at times. Lower stratus redevelops this evening, 
with IFR conditions likely tonight and into Sunday AM. Fog possible 
as well. A late afternoon or early evening shower or thunderstorm 
remains possible at KSWF, with everyone else remaining dry.

Winds generally SE under 10 kt today, becoming light and variable or 
a light NE flow tonight. Similar SE flow and speed expected to set 
up by late Sunday AM.

 ...NY Metro (KEWR/KLGA/KJFK/KTEB) TAF Uncertainty...

Brief MVFR cigs possible this afternoon.

Lower confidence in how low conditions get overnight, sub IFR 
possible at times.

.OUTLOOK FOR 18Z SUNDAY THROUGH THURSDAY... 

Sunday PM: Mainly VFR.

Monday: MVFR or lower in the afternoon and early evening with 
showers and thunderstorms likely.

Tuesday-Thursday: Mainly VFR. Showers or thunderstorm possible in 
the afternoon and evening.

Detailed information, including hourly TAF wind component forecasts, 
can be found at: https:/www.weather.gov/zny/n90

&&

.MARINE...
With a weak pressure gradient, winds and waves likely remain below 
Small Craft Advisory criteria tonight through next week. 
However, a relatively active pattern is expected next week with
chances of afternoon showers and thunderstorms for several 
days. Winds and waves will be higher in any storms.

&&

.HYDROLOGY...
Isolated thunderstorms across the Lower Hudson Valley this 
afternoon, and Sunday afternoon have the potential of producing 
localized heavy rainfall as the storms will be slow moving. And
any potential flooding will also be localized. For Monday, there
is a chance of minor flooding with heavy rainfall potential
across a larger area as a cold front approaches during the day.
However, any flooding will be localized. At this time there are
no hydrologic concerns Monday night through the week.

&&

.TIDES/COASTAL FLOODING...
The risk for the development of rip currents has been elevated 
to high at all the ocean beaches through this evening with 
report of strong rip currents. For the ocean seas for Sunday the
risk remains at moderate, with onshore flow near 10 kt and a 
3-4 ft swell from the southeast at a 7 to 8 sec, and an added 
long period onshore swell.

&&

.OKX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CT...None.
NY...High Risk for Rip Currents until 9 PM EDT this evening for NYZ075-
     080-081-178-179.
NJ...Air Quality Alert until 11 PM EDT this evening for NJZ002-004-
     006-103>108.
MARINE...None.

&&

$$

SYNOPSIS...MET/JT
NEAR TERM...MET
SHORT TERM...MET
LONG TERM...JT
AVIATION...DR
MARINE...MET/JT
HYDROLOGY...MET/JT
TIDES/COASTAL FLOODING...
