725 
FXUS61 KOKX 290852
AFDOKX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service New York NY
352 AM EST Wed Jan 29 2025

.SYNOPSIS...
A clipper low passes to the north today and drags a cold front 
through the area this afternoon. High pressure briefly builds in 
tonight through Thursday. A frontal system impacts the area on 
Friday, with another, weaker one likely late Sunday into Monday.

&&

.NEAR TERM /THROUGH TONIGHT/...
A clipper low is currently centered over the Great Lakes while the 
associated warm front is pushing north through the area. The 
overrunning snow ahead of the warm front is a bit farther south than 
previously forecast. Despite having decent returns on radar, with 
dewpoint depressions still about 15 degrees, much of this does not 
seem to be reaching the ground. This is confirmed by area cams and 
ASOS obs. Anything that did/does fall will be light with 
possibly a light coating across some far northern locations 
locations. This overrunning precipitation is currently pushing 
through eastern CT and should be out of the area by 4 AM.

The low continues to push east and will drag a cold front through 
the area this afternoon. W/SW winds pick up ahead of the front with 
deep mixing expected. There is very good agreement with mixing up to 
at least 800mb, with many models showing peak mixing up to 700mb. 
Not expecting winds to make it to the surface from the top of the 
layer, but even taking the 925mb winds is enough for 45 mph gusts. 
Given this, and the fact that winds overperformed slightly 
yesterday, a Wind Advisory has been issued and is in effect 
from 9am this morning until 10pm tonight for widespread 45 to 50
mph wind gusts. The peak of the gusts will likely be this 
afternoon.

Very weak instability forms ahead of the cold front and this 
will likely aid in afternoon scattered showers. For most this 
will fall as rain, but locations up in the Lower Hudson Valley 
could see snow or a rain/snow mix. The nature of this may also 
be more squall like, similar to yesterday, but again this threat
is more for north and west of the area.

Heights start to rise aloft tonight as the flow flattens. High 
pressure starts to build in at the surface. Winds gradually lower 
through the night, but remain gusty with 20 to 30 mph gusts
after midnight.

&&

.SHORT TERM /THURSDAY THROUGH THURSDAY NIGHT/...
High pressure continues to build in on Thursday and then pushes 
east Thursday night. A warm front from the next system 
approaches the area Thursday night. There is potential for some 
precipitation from this system to start as early as late 
Thursday night. If this is the case, some freezing rain is 
possible for any locations that drop to freezing ahead of the 
system. This would likely be the higher elevations of northeast 
NJ and then the Lower Hudson Valley into southwest CT. This 
threat will continue to be monitored, but for now only light ice
accumulation is expected.

&&

.LONG TERM /FRIDAY THROUGH TUESDAY/...
The modeling has trended swd with the track of the weak sfc low on 
Fri. This will allow the llvl cold air to remain locked in across 
the interior during the mrng hours, with fzra the result. The 
concern is that the swd trend continues, allowing nrn areas to stay 
fzra for most of the day. Dropped temps slightly from the NBM due to 
an expected warm bias in a CAD scenario. There is still time for the 
models to latch onto a consistent track - and when that occurs the 
higher res models will be in range to contribute to the 2m temp fcst.

The NBM has high pops for Fri ngt as the sys exits, which could lead 
to the impression that some decent snow could fall as temps drop. 
However, the modeling has been consistent that the h7 dry slot comes 
thru, cutting off any significant pcpn. Because of this, have 
included the transition to wintry wx, but have very little in the 
way of snow accums attm.

Dry and seasonably cool on Sat. Normal highs are about 40 for the 
climate sites. Fair wx to start Sun, then a warm front approaches 
and passes late Sun ngt. Some lgt snow possible, perhaps mixed with 
rain at the coasts. 

Thermal ridge builds in on Mon, so some milder high temps fcst and 
the NBM was followed. The city could hit 50. 

The next cold front comes thru Mon ngt per the 00Z runs. The front 
is moisture starved so the modeling indicates a dry fropa.

Fair and seasonal on Tue, albeit windy, with high pres building in 
all the way from wrn Canada.

&&

.AVIATION /08Z WEDNESDAY THROUGH SUNDAY/...
A cold frontal passage occurs this aftn. 

S-SW winds veering more SW with gusts 20-25kt by the start of the 
morning push. Winds increase further through the morning push and 
gradually veer more westerly. The winds then shift WNW in the 
afternoon with gusts generally around 35kt and a peak gust of 40-
45kt.

   NY Metro (KEWR/KLGA/KJFK/KTEB) TAF Uncertainty...

Winds probably favor north/right of 310 magnetic at KJFK/KLGA/KTEB 
after around 19z. Equal chances for left or right of 310 magnetic at 
KEWR.

.OUTLOOK FOR 06Z THURSDAY THROUGH SUNDAY...

Late Tonight: VFR. NW G25-30kt eve, then 20-25kt overnight.

Thursday: VFR into the eve. NW winds G20kt in the morning. A wintry 
mix developing overnight with MVFR or lower.

Friday: Wintry mix changing to rain with MVFR or lower, changing to 
light snow after midnight before ending. SW winds G20kt NYC 
metro/coast.

Saturday: Becoming VFR in the morning. NW winds G20kt until around 
midday.

Sunday: Chance MVFR or lower cond mainly at night, with snow 
changing to a wintry mix or rain. 

Detailed information, including hourly TAF wind component forecasts, 
can be found at: https:/www.weather.gov/zny/n90

&&

.MARINE...
A Gale Warning is in effect for all waters as gusts up to 40 kt
are expected today. The Gale Warning is in effect through the 
first half of tonight before winds finally lower to SCA levels. 
25 kt gusts can then be expected into early Thursday. With cold
air working into the area, light freezing spray is expected
tonight across the LI Sound and ocean waters. Quiet marine 
conditions expected the rest of Thursday through the first half 
of Thursday night when the next frontal system approaches.

A SCA will likely be needed for Fri and Sat on the ocean, with mrgnl 
winds elsewhere. All waters blw SCA lvls Sun into Mon. 

&&

.HYDROLOGY...
There are no hydrologic concerns through early next week.

&&

.OKX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CT...Wind Advisory from 9 AM this morning to 10 PM EST this evening 
     for CTZ005>012.
NY...Wind Advisory from 9 AM this morning to 10 PM EST this evening 
     for NYZ067>075-078>081-176>179.
NJ...Wind Advisory from 9 AM this morning to 10 PM EST this evening 
     for NJZ002-004-006-103>108.
MARINE...Gale Warning until 1 AM EST Thursday for ANZ331-332-335-338-
     340-345-350-353-355.
     Small Craft Advisory until 6 AM EST early this morning for 
     ANZ350-353-355.

&&

$$

SYNOPSIS...JMC/JT
NEAR TERM...JT
SHORT TERM...JT
LONG TERM...JMC
AVIATION...JMC
MARINE...JMC/JT
HYDROLOGY...JMC/JT
