605 
FXUS61 KOKX 071137
AFDOKX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service New York NY
637 AM EST Tue Jan 7 2025

.SYNOPSIS...
Broad low pressure meanders over the Canadian Maritimes as a high
slowly builds in from the west through Friday. Low pressure 
passes to the south Saturday into Saturday night. High pressure 
returns for Sunday and the beginning of next week.

&&

.NEAR TERM /THROUGH TONIGHT/...
In the wake of low pressure that passed through the Mid Atlantic and 
offshore yesterday, drier conditions can be expected today. Broad 
low pressure remains near the Canadian Maritimes as surface 
high pressure centered over the Northern Plains begins to build 
south and west toward the region. Tightening pressure gradient 
between these two features is already kicking up winds, and they
stay gusty over the next several days.

SPS remains in place for the region until 8 AM this morning for 
potential icy conditions, mainly on sheltered and untreated 
surfaces. Otherwise, a cold January morning, temperatures in the 
teens and low 20s, but wind chill values near 0 across the interior, 
and single digits along the coast. Mostly clear skies to start, with 
some stratocu developing at or under 5 kft into this afternoon as a 
weak shortwave swings thru New England. Absent a stray flurry or 
snow shower inland, conditions remain dry.

Soundings prog the mixed layer extending up to between 850 and 
900 mb today with winds near 40 kt at the top. With this, likely
to see gusts down to the surface between 35 and 45 mph at 
times. Isolated gusts toward 50 mph possible, but likely limited
in frequency and coverage, so no advisory warranted with this 
update.

Cold advection from the flow will keep temperatures generally 
sub freezing with wind chills in the teens thru the afternoon. 
Similarly tonight, air temperatures in teens and low 20s, but 
feeling closer to 0 at times.

&&

.SHORT TERM /WEDNESDAY THROUGH THURSDAY NIGHT/...
Brisk, cold, and dry conditions continue Wednesday and Thursday.

As high pressure treks east toward the region, the pressure 
gradient remains tight locally, and will maintain noticeably
blustery conditions, with gusts 30 to 40 mph likely both days.

While temperatures won't break records, we're entering the 
climatologically coldest period of the year, will still run 
about 10 degrees below normal through Thursday. Sub freezing 
high temperatures both days, with wind chills likely staying the
teens on the high side during the daytime, and near 0 at night.

&&

.LONG TERM /FRIDAY THROUGH MONDAY/...
High pressure ridge axis shifts through the region during Friday 
with dry conditions and high temperatures at or slightly below 
normal.

Models then continue to vary with the extent/timing of northern and 
southern stream phasing which would impact the track of the next low 
pressure system to potentially impact the forecast area during 
Saturday. Still anticipating the low center to track to our south, 
and at this point, guidance favors better chances of it passing 
south and east of the 40N/70W benchmark versus north and west of it. 
Thermal profiles with this setup would support an all-snow event, 
but still too early in the game to have much confidence regarding 
any potential accumulations. PoPs for late Friday night through 
Saturday night are capped at chance at this point.

High pressure otherwise builds back in for Sunday and weakens on 
Monday. Likely dry through the period. High temperatures generally 
in the 30s through the long term period.

&&

.AVIATION /12Z TUESDAY THROUGH SATURDAY/...
Region remains between strong low pressure to the east and strong 
high pressure to the west.

VFR. Occasional MVFR cigs possible for KSWF.

Gusty winds strengthen further today with frequent gusts 30-40kt, 
strongest at KJFK/KLGA/KEWR.  

 ...NY Metro (KEWR/KLGA/KJFK/KTEB) TAF Uncertainty...

Direction should favor right/north of 310 magnetic, although may 
occasionally be south/left of it. Gusts will likely vary a few kts 
from forecast at times. Peak gust of 40-45kt.

OUTLOOK FOR 12Z WEDNESDAY THROUGH SATURDAY...

Wednesday through Thursday: VFR. NW wind gusts 30-35kt.

Friday: VFR. NW wind gusts 20kt in the morning.

Saturday: Low pressure impacts possible. Potentially IFR with strong 
winds and hvy sn/ra possible depending on track and intensity.

Detailed information, including hourly TAF wind component forecasts, 
can be found at: https:/www.weather.gov/zny/n90

&&

.MARINE...
Gale Warning now in effect on all waters thru at least early 
Wednesday morning. Gusty NNW flow 35 to 40 kt persists through 
this time. While the warning currently runs until Wed 6 AM on 
non ocean waters, it's possible this could be extended thru 
Wednesday afternoon. Otherwise, SCA conditions thereafter with 
occasional gale force gusts both Wednesday and Thursday. 
Similarly on the ocean, the warning in effect thru Wed 6 PM may 
need an extension through Thursday afternoon. Seas on the ocean 
generally between 5 and 8 ft thru this period, and as high as 5 
ft on the LI Sound. Spotty freezing spray also possible at times
through this period.

With a prolonged NW flow, SCA conditions will likely be ongoing
at the start of Friday morning with sub-advisory conditions 
anticipated by Friday night. Next chance of advisory conditions 
would then be Saturday night with an offshore storm.

&&

.HYDROLOGY...
No significant hydrologic issues anticipated through early next
week.

&&

.OKX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CT...None.
NY...None.
NJ...None.
MARINE...Gale Warning until 6 AM EST Wednesday for ANZ331-332-335-338-
     340-345.
     Gale Warning until 6 PM EST Wednesday for ANZ350-353-355.

&&

$$

SYNOPSIS...JC/DR
NEAR TERM...DR
SHORT TERM...DR
LONG TERM...JC
AVIATION...JC
MARINE...JC/DR
HYDROLOGY...JC/DR
