362 
FXUS61 KOKX 312004
AFDOKX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service New York NY
404 PM EDT Sat May 31 2025

.SYNOPSIS...
Low pressure heads into Quebec through Sunday as high pressure 
builds southwest of the area into Sunday night. High pressure 
builds over the area on Monday, then drifts offshore and 
intensifies through the middle of the week, allowing for a 
significant warming trend.


&&

.NEAR TERM /UNTIL 6 AM SUNDAY MORNING/...
Showers and an isolated thunderstorm associated with a cold front 
moving through, mainly eastern areas, will diminish as surface low 
pressure over southern New England heads into Quebec by Sunday 
morning. Most CAMs are in agreement with the convection associated 
with the cold front moving south and west of the area. Tried to
model this with the POPs, but they may be a overdone this 
evening, especially across portions of NYC (except Staten 
Island, which would have the highest chances of seeing showers 
and an isolated thunderstorm given they are farthest south and 
west). A surface trough will move through late tonight, bringing
a stray shower or two for western 2/3 of the forecast area, but
thereafter dry conditions are expected. Additionally, with the 
low level jet forecast to already be east of the area, winds are
expected to diminish. 

Overnight lows will be below normal for this time of year, in the 
lower 40s inland to lower 50s along the coast and into NYC and 
surrounding metro area.&&

.SHORT TERM /6 AM SUNDAY MORNING THROUGH SUNDAY NIGHT/...
Troughing in the mid and upper levels remains over the northeast 
Sunday into Sunday night with a couple of shortwaves 
rotating through. In turn, a couple of weak surface troughs will 
swing through as high pressure tries to build in from the southwest. 
These features will not result in anything other than some cloud 
cover. It will also help in keeping running below normal, with highs 
only in the middle to upper 60s expected.


&&

.LONG TERM /MONDAY THROUGH SATURDAY/...
High pres builds into the region on Mon, then an upr ridge builds in 
thru Wed. This will keep the region dry thru the period. Temps rise 
thru the week, with highs approaching 90 on Wed across the interior 
and swrn hot spots. 

Heights may begin to fall on Thu as the ridge is suppressed. It will 
still be hot, and possibly the hottest day of the week as the 
thermal ridge is locked in, but there will also be a chance for 
aftn/eve shwrs and tstms due to the falling heights. It is a bit far 
out to have confidence in the falling heights and tstm aspect, but 
better confidence in the hot temps. 

A sly component llvl flow keeps LI and cstl CT cooler Tue-Thu. 

With the ridge continuing to be suppressed Fri and Sat, more chances 
for shwrs and tstms, particularly in the aftn/eve, along with 
gradually lowering high temps. 

&&

.AVIATION /20Z SATURDAY THROUGH THURSDAY/...
Low pressure continues to depart to the northeast as a trailing
cold front moves through this afternoon. High pressure gradually
builds in thereafter.

VFR this afternoon, except KSWF where MVFR may continue until
this evening. Expected coverage of showers this afternoon has 
lowered for the NYC terminals. Thinking it will be more of a VCSH 
situation and have taken out PROB30 of SHRA. Thunder can still not 
be totally ruled out, but very low chance at this time. If any 
heavier showers do develop, brief MVFR is possible. VFR tonight 
through the end of the TAF.

Winds mainly W/NW gusting to 25 to 30 kt now. Occasional higher 
gusts will still be possible through the afternoon. Winds then 
diminish this evening. 20-25 kt gusts pick back up Sunday 
morning.

 ...NY Metro (KEWR/KLGA/KJFK/KTEB) TAF Uncertainty... 

Expected shower coverage has lowered, with most of the activity 
passing to the south of the terminals. However, a shower or 
thunderstorm can still not be completely ruled out.

Occasional gusts up to 35 kt still possible through the afternoon. 

.OUTLOOK FOR 18Z SUNDAY THROUGH THURSDAY... 

Sunday through Wednesday...VFR.

Thursday...Potential for MVFR in showers and thunderstorms in
the afternoon/evening.

&&

.MARINE...
SCAs over the harbor and western sound have been cancelled as
winds have diminished enough to warrant the cancellation.
Occasional gusts of 25 to 30 kt are still possible through 6 pm,
but prevailing SCA gusts have ended here. SCA conditions
continue for all other coastal zones, with all non-ocean waters
coming down around 8 pm this evening. Ocean waters will continue
as waves remain above 5 ft through tonight, though waves will be
diminishing through the night on the ocean. The western ocean
zone looks to come down below 5 ft by daybreak Sunday, and the
eastern ocean zone by around sunset Sunday evening. Thereafter,
conditions remain below SCA for all waters from Sunday night
through Thursday as a broad area of high pressure remains over 
the region.


&&

.HYDROLOGY...
There are no hydrologic concerns tonight through the end of 
next week. 

&&

.OKX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CT...None.
NY...High Risk for Rip Currents until 9 PM EDT this evening for NYZ080-
     081.
NJ...None.
MARINE...Small Craft Advisory until 8 PM EDT this evening for ANZ331-
     332-340-345.
     Small Craft Advisory until 6 PM EDT Sunday for ANZ350-353.
     Small Craft Advisory until 8 AM EDT Sunday for ANZ355.

&&

$$

SYNOPSIS...JMC/JP
NEAR TERM...JP
SHORT TERM...JP
LONG TERM...JMC
AVIATION...JT
MARINE...JMC/JP
HYDROLOGY...JMC/JP
