455 
FXUS61 KOKX 020611
AFDOKX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service New York NY
111 AM EST Sun Mar 2 2025

.SYNOPSIS...
High pressure builds in through Monday, moving off the coast by
Tuesday. As strong low pressure tracks toward the Great Lakes, 
an associated warm front moves through locally into Wednesday 
morning, with the attendant cold front following into Wednesday 
night. Secondary low pressure may develop nearby on Thursday and
pass east of of New England on Friday before high pressure 
attempts to return from the west.

&&

.NEAR TERM /UNTIL 6 AM THIS MORNING/...
Strong cold advection will continue through the rest of the
night. Temperatures will continue to fall and likely reach the
mid teens inland to around 20 degrees closer to the coast by 
day break. NW winds 15-20 mph with gusts 25-30 mph expected
through much of the night, although gusts may begin to weaken
towards day break. Wind chills will fall to 0 to 5 above inland
and 5 to 10 above closer to the coast.

&&

.SHORT TERM /6 AM THIS MORNING THROUGH 6 AM MONDAY/...
Expect unseasonably cold conditions today as high pressure 
continue to build towards the area. There will be enough of a 
pressure gradient to support another blustery day. NW winds are 
likely to gust 20-25 mph into the afternoon. A full day of early
March sunshine in combination with downsloping NW flow will 
give temperatures a bit of a boost from the morning 
temperatures. Afternoon highs should reach the mid-upper 20s 
inland and lower 30s closer to the coast. Wind chills will be in
the teens to low 20s in the afternoon. 

The high pressure will settle over the Northeast tonight.
Outlying areas should decouple, but coastal areas may still 
have a light breeze through the night with the center of the 
high still to the west. Low temps will be in the teens. 

&&

.LONG TERM /MONDAY THROUGH SATURDAY/...
Key Points:

* After a cold start to the period, increasing temperatures into 
  midweek, with highs running 10 degrees above normal.

* Moderate to locally heavy rainfall likely late Tuesday night into 
  Thursday, followed by blustery conditions into late week.

High pressure overhead on Monday slides offshore by early Tuesday 
morning, allowing moderation of the air mass as southwest flow 
develops. temperatures to reach the middle and upper 30s for highs 
on Monday. Lows on Monday night will also be warmer than Sunday 
night and generally in the 20s across the region.

Deep closed low over the Plains moves east into the mid Mississippi 
Valley by Wed AM, while downstream ridging builds over the area, 
with sfc high pressure moving farther out into the Atlantic. Return 
flow and rising heights aloft will lead to a milder day, with temps 
a good 10-15 degrees warmer than those of Monday, from the mid 40s 
to lower 50s. A leading warm front will approach Tue night and move 
through Wed AM with some light to moderate rain. Large scale warm 
advection in a deep-layered S flow after warm fropa will continue to 
transport Gulf and Atlantic moisture into the area, with the 
potential for bands of moderate to heavy rain Wed into Wed evening. 
QPF looks to average around an inch, though locally higher amounts 
toward 1.5 inches possible. High temps Wed should be even milder, 
widespread 50s, and possibly reaching 60 in parts of NE NJ. 

Associated cold front passes through late Wed night into Thu 
morning, with lingering showers possible through the day especially 
over S CT and Long Island with the upper trough passing overhead. 
Possible weak secondary low formation nearby could lead to more 
prolonged precip mainly S CT and Long Island into Thursday before 
conditions dry out. The tightened pressure gradient behind the 
system will keep the flow gusty from the W and NW thru Friday, with 
temperatures falling back toward normal late week.

&&

.AVIATION /06Z SUNDAY THROUGH THURSDAY/...
VFR with NW winds 15-18 kt with gusts 25-30 kt as high pressure
builds from the west. Some terminals outside the NYC metro area
may gust more in the 20-25 kt range. Gusts begin to diminish 
after 00Z Mon.

 ...NY Metro (KEWR/KLGA/KJFK/KTEB) TAF Uncertainty...

Peak gusts could be a few kt higher than fcst. 

.OUTLOOK FOR 06Z MONDAY THROUGH THURSDAY...

Late tonight: VFR.

Monday: VFR.

Tuesday: VFR. SW winds G15-20kt in the afternoon. 

Tuesday night: Chance of rain showers late with MVFR possible. 
SW winds G15-20 kt in the evening. 

Wednesday: Rain showers with IFR/LIFR expected. S winds G20-30kt
in the morning, increasing to G30-35kt in the afternoon/evening.
LLWS. 

Thursday: Chance of rain showers with MVFR. W-SW winds G20-25kt. 

Detailed information, including hourly TAF wind component
forecasts, can be found at: https:/www.weather.gov/zny/n90 

&&

.MARINE...
Winds have subsided below gale force on the ocean. 
Have converted the gale warning to an SCA. Winds will remain at
SCA levels through the rest of the night and then gradually 
subside through the daytime. Gusts on the non-ocean should fall
below 25 kt by 10 AM and then on the ocean in the afternoon. 
Seas are likely to linger close to 5 ft as well. Will run the 
SCA on the non-ocean waters through 10 AM and on the ocean
through 6 PM. Light freezing spray is expected. 

Conditions will be below SCA levels tonight with high pressure 
building over the waters. 

SCA conditions develop on all waters daytime Wednesday as S flow 
increases, with gusts 25-30 kt and ocean seas building from 2-3
ft early in the morning to 7-9 ft by evening. Gale force gusts 
up to 40 kt possible on at least the ocean Wed night, if not all
waters. Ocean seas build further, reaching 9-12 ft late Wed 
night. Gales should subside early Thursday, though SCA 
conditions could persist thru Friday with a tightened pressure 
gradient behind the system maintaining a blustery W-NW flow.

&&

.HYDROLOGY...
A frontal system Wednesday into Thursday is expected to produce 
generally around an inch or rainfall across the region. 
Localized areas of minor flooding appear possible Wednesday and 
Wednesday night as the steadiest of the precipitation moves 
through, but duration and rates likely preclude anything more 
significant and the overall threat for flash flooding is low. 
WPC currently has a marginal risk for excessive rainfall 
outlined for the area.

&&

.OKX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CT...None.
NY...None.
NJ...None.
MARINE...Small Craft Advisory until 10 AM EST this morning for ANZ331-
     332-335-338-340-345.
     Small Craft Advisory until 6 PM EST this evening for ANZ350-
     353-355.

&&

$$

SYNOPSIS...DS
NEAR TERM...DS
SHORT TERM...
LONG TERM...DR
AVIATION...JM
MARINE...DR/DS
HYDROLOGY...DR
