259 
FXUS61 KOKX 280729
AFDOKX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service New York NY
329 AM EDT Wed May 28 2025

.SYNOPSIS...
High pressure will remain offshore today. Meanwhile, low 
pressure and its associated frontal system will approach from 
the west, moving over the area tonight into Thursday. A series 
of low pressure systems move through the region Thursday night 
through Saturday night. Weak high pressure returns Sunday into 
early next week.

&&

.NEAR TERM /UNTIL 6 AM THIS MORNING/...
No significant changes with the evening update. Just a few minor 
adjustments to reflect current observations. 

Otherwise, high pressure remains east of the region tonight. 
Meanwhile, low pressure and an upper level trough approach from
the west. It will remain cloudy overnight. Warm air advection 
ahead of the trough, along with some forcing may result in a 
sprinkle or light rain around daybreak, but most of the 
measurable rain should hold off until after sunrise. 
Temps tonight will fall into the 50s. 

&&

.SHORT TERM /6 AM THIS MORNING THROUGH 6 PM THURSDAY/...
The region will remain stuck between low pressure and upper 
level trough to the west and surface high pressure and ridging 
aloft to the east. Expect a cloudy day, with rain chances slowly
increasing, mainly across the western half of the CWA through 
the daytime. Portions of CT and Long Island may remain dry 
through much of the day, as the precipitation runs into drier 
air. Expect cooler temperatures with highs only in the 60s. 
There is a chance interior CT reaches the lower 70s if cloud 
cover is thinner across this area. 

Rain chances then increase, with likely PoP tonight into 
Thursday as the low finally moves over the area. The forecast
guidance does differ a bit on the amplitude of the shortwave 
and associated energy moving across the area. A flatter guidance
generally brings in less precip overall as the forcing is 
weaker, while a slightly more amplified solutions have a bit 
more precip along. Even with these differences, QPF amounts 
remain low, generally remaining below a half inch, CWA wide. 
Temperatures tonight will fall into the 50s and Thursday climb 
into the upper 60s and lower 70s.

&&

.LONG TERM /THURSDAY NIGHT THROUGH TUESDAY/...
A full amplitude trough, with an embedded closed low, from eastern 
Canada into the Gulf coast states Thursday night gradually builds 
to the east coast Friday and remains into late Sunday before moving 
offshore Sunday night into early next week.
With a series of vort maxes rotating through the upper low and 
trough, a series of lows will track along a nearly stationary 
frontal boundary from off the New England coast into the mid 
Atlantic. The last of the waves moves through Saturday bringing a 
cold front across the region. So a long period of unsettled weather 
is expected from Thursday night into Saturday night.
With rising heights aloft Sunday night into the beginning of next 
week, and surface high pressure building into the region, dry 
weather returns. Followed the NBM deterministic guidance, which has 
trended lower for daytime highs Friday and Saturday, with 
temperatures generally below normal. Night time lows will be near 
normal.

&&

.AVIATION /07Z WEDNESDAY THROUGH SUNDAY/...
High pressure to the east will gradually give way to weak low
pressure approaching from the Mid Atlantic region and then
passing just south of Long Island late tonight. 

VFR most of today as OVC high/mid level clouds gradually lower.
There is a chance of some light rain at KEWR as early as
14Z-15Z, then expanding northeast into the NYC metro area early
this afternoon and points north/east during the late day hours.
MVFR cigs arrive at the NYC metros by about 21Z-22Z, with IFR
cigs there and at KISP/KHPN by 03Z. Farther north/east, expect 
cigs to lower to MVFR this evening, with IFR at KBDR/KSWF after
midnight. 

Light S flow should increase to 5-10 kt by this afternoon, then
back SE from late afternoon into this evening. 

 ...NY Metro (KEWR/KLGA/KJFK/KTEB) TAF Uncertainty...

High confidence on timing of lowering cigs late today into this
evening. Winds could back SE sooner than fcst especially closer
to the coast. 

.OUTLOOK FOR 06Z THURSDAY THROUGH SUNDAY...

Late tonight: Rain likely with IFR cond expected, except mainly MVFR
at KGON. 

Thursday: Chance of showers. IFR cond in the morning improve to
MVFR in the afternoon, and to VFR late at the NYC metros. 

Thursday night: VFR/IFR cigs possible late. 

Friday: MVFR/IFR cigs likely. 

Friday night and Saturday: Chance of showers and possibly a 
tstm. MVFR cond likely, IFR possible. SW-W winds G15-20kt in 
the afternoon. 

Sunday...VFR.

Detailed information, including hourly TAF wind component
forecasts, can be found at: https:/www.weather.gov/zny/n90

&&

.MARINE...
No changes to winds and seas with this update.

Winds and seas will remain below SCA levels today with high 
pressure in control. Increasing SE flow tonight into Thursday 
may lead to wind gusts close to 25 kt and seas building to near 
5 ft on the ocean. The flow may weaken a bit on Thursday, but 
seas will remain elevated. 

Ocean seas remain at SCA levels Thursday night as southerly 
winds continue ahead of a cold front. With the passage of the 
cold front winds shifts to SW to W and ocean seas gradually 
diminish below 5 feet by Friday morning. Ocean seas briefly 
remain below SCA levels Friday, then with increasing southerly 
winds ahead of another front ocean seas likely build to advisory
levels late Friday night into Saturday. Ocean seas remain 
elevated Saturday night, and gradually subside below 5 feet west
to east during Sunday as winds shift to the west to southwest.

&&

.HYDROLOGY...
No hydrologic impacts expected through early next week.

&&

.TIDES/COASTAL FLOODING...
There is a low rip current risk at ocean beaches today with 1-2
ft seas and winds generally 10 kt or less. The rip current 
development risk increases to high for Thursday due to a 
building southeast swell and southeast winds.

&&

.OKX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CT...None.
NY...None.
NJ...None.
MARINE...None.

&&

$$

SYNOPSIS...BC/MET
NEAR TERM...BC/MET
SHORT TERM...BC
LONG TERM...MET
AVIATION...BG
MARINE...BC/MET
HYDROLOGY...BC/MET
TIDES/COASTAL FLOODING...
