450 
FXUS61 KOKX 080822
AFDOKX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service New York NY
322 AM EST Sat Mar 8 2025

.SYNOPSIS...
A weakening frontal system passes to our south early this morning, 
with a weak cold front quickly following. High pressure builds in 
through Sunday morning, with a surface trough moving through later 
in the day. Two areas of deepening low pressure then approach the 
area through Monday night. High pressure then begins to build in 
thereafter from the west and largely maintains control of the area
through next week, though there will be a few weak disturbances 
that move by.

&&

.NEAR TERM /THROUGH TONIGHT/...
A weakening frontal system is approaching from the west and will get 
absorbed by the broader low near the area as it passes to the south 
through the morning hours. Not too far behind it, a cold front will 
move through.

Some very light returns can be seen on radar, but so far no 
precipitation has been observed with the weakening frontal system. 
Will keep PoPs from the previous forecast which has slight chance 
PoPs mainly for the southern half of the area through 7 AM. Gusty 
conditions again today as deep mixing is expected with CAA behind the 
cold front. Winds aloft are a bit weaker, so only expecting 30 to 35 
mph gusts. Some isolated 40 to 45 mph gusts cant be ruled out, 
especially during the afternoon for eastern CT and eastern Long 
Island.

&&

.SHORT TERM /SUNDAY THROUGH MONDAY NIGHT/...
High pressure briefly builds in Sunday morning, but a shortwave and 
associated surface trough look to move through in the afternoon. The 
shortwave looks strong enough to spark isolated rain/snow showers 
across the area. The CAMs have picked up on this activity. Gusty 
conditions expected again on Sunday, up to about 30 mph.

The flow lightens on Monday and turns to the southwest. This will 
aid in northeast NJ, the Lower Hudson Valley and NYC warming up to 
the upper 50s and lower 60s. Long Island and the CT coast likely do 
not make it out of the lower to mid 50s as is typical this time of 
year due to the marine influence.

&&

.LONG TERM /TUESDAY THROUGH FRIDAY/...
No significant changes in the long term and stuck fairly close to 
the previous forecast/NBM.

A weak cold front moves through Tuesday into Tuesday night with dry 
conditions expected. High pressure then remains in control much of 
the rest of the week as low pressure systems pass to the north and 
south of the area. The only chance for some light rain showers is 
Thursday with the potential for weak mid-level energy to break off a 
developing low over the Central US, but capped this potential at 
slight chance or a low end chance as there isn't much model 
consensus as of now.

Temperatures on Tuesday will range from the 50s to lower/middle 60s. 
High will then remain in the 50s for the remainder of the week.

&&

.AVIATION /08Z SATURDAY THROUGH WEDNESDAY/...
The region remains between strong low pressure to the northeast 
and high pressure to the southwest.

VFR. West winds at 10kt or less through the pre-dawn hours, then 
winds begin to increase, especially after around 14z. Gusts to 
around 30kt by noon, lasting through the afternoon before winds 
diminish tonight.

 ...NY Metro (KEWR/KLGA/KJFK/KTEB) TAF Uncertainty...

No unscheduled amendments expected.

.OUTLOOK FOR 06Z SUNDAY THROUGH WEDNESDAY...

Saturday night: VFR.

Sunday - Monday: VFR.

Tuesday: VFR, SW-S gusts up to 20kt PM.

Wednesday: VFR.

Detailed information, including hourly TAF wind component forecasts, 
can be found at: https:/www.weather.gov/zny/n90

&&

.MARINE...
There will be a lull in winds early this morning, but a Small Craft 
Advisory remains in effect for all waters as gusts ramp up around 10 
AM. Gusts peak this afternoon around 30 kt, with potential for a 
brief period of 35 kt gusts for the eastern LI Sound, Peconic and 
Gardiners Bays and the ocean waters south of Montauk.

There will be another lull in winds tonight before SCA conditions 
return to all waters on Sunday with 25 to 30 kt gusts. Thereafter, 
conditions look to stay below SCA criteria.

The next chance for SCA conditions will be Tuesday night into 
Wednesday with a cold frontal passage possibly bringing gusts to 
near 25 kt again with wave heights on the ocean near 5 feet.

&&

.FIRE WEATHER...
Windy and dry conditions will couple to allow for an increased risk 
in fire spread today. Relative humidity values are forecast to 
sit around 30 percent in the afternoon, with frequent gusts 30 
to 35 mph. In coordination with fire weather partners, a Special
Weather Statement was hoisted across all areas tomorrow to 
highlight this elevated danger should ignition occur.

&&

.HYDROLOGY...
There are no hydrologic concerns through the end of next week.

&&

.OKX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CT...None.
NY...None.
NJ...None.
MARINE...Small Craft Advisory until 1 AM EST Sunday for ANZ331-332-335-
     338-340-345.
     Small Craft Advisory until 7 AM EST Sunday for ANZ350-353-355.

&&

$$

SYNOPSIS...BC/JT
NEAR TERM...JT
SHORT TERM...JT
LONG TERM...BC
AVIATION...BC
MARINE...BC/JT
FIRE WEATHER...DR
HYDROLOGY...BC/JT
