972 
FXUS61 KOKX 082324
AFDOKX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service New York NY
724 PM EDT Tue Apr 8 2025

.SYNOPSIS...
High pressure builds and settles nearby for mid week before
moving offshore into Thursday. A broad area of low pressure 
will impact the area for the end of the week into the weekend. 
A transitory high pressure ridge may build in on Monday.

&&

.NEAR TERM /UNTIL 6 AM WEDNESDAY MORNING/...
Increased gusts til about 10 pm with some spots still gusting
close to 40kt. No other changes attm. An unseasonably cold 
night in store as an anomalously cold air mass for April settles
over the region. 1000-500 mb thickness values are progged to 
get down to around 520 dm. Near record cold is a distinct 
possibility at a few of our climate sites (see climate section).
A NW wind will make it feel a good 10 degrees colder much of 
the time, although the strongest wind gusts diminish this 
evening. Winds overall diminish more gradually during the second
half of the night, and likely not much until just before 
sunrise and mainly across NW interior zones. With the winds 
staying up temperatures won't drop lower than the middle and 
upper 20s in most locations, but that is still a significant 
freeze. Thus a freeze warning remains in effect where the 
growing season has begun (NE NJ and NYC metro) into Nassau 
County. Other zones nearby do not begin their growing season 
(climo based) until the llth. Expect widespread 20s for lows, to
around 30 for portions of NYC. Wind chills will bottom out 
mainly in the teens, so a hard freeze indeed under clear skies 
with high pressure continuing to build.

&&

.SHORT TERM /6 AM WEDNESDAY MORNING THROUGH WEDNESDAY NIGHT/...
Quite a cold start to the morning but with lighter winds with high 
pressure settling to the SW and S through the day. With synoptic 
scale sinking motion firmly in place skies should be mainly sunny 
with BUFKIT forecast soundings indicating much of the column being 
dry, with just a hint of moderate RH in a shallow layer in the mid 
levels. With a lighter west wind look for temperatures to be a touch 
milder, but still below normal for this time of year. Went just a 
touch above guidance as far as temperatures go with no sign of a 
mesoscale sea breeze, until perhaps very late in the day and still 
enough of a westerly synoptic flow for the most part. 

For Wednesday evening the high will be just above overhead, and thus 
the winds should go calm in many places. Thus, in the non urban 
locations look for some degree of radiational cooling, at least 
early in the night. However, there is uncertainty regarding how 
quickly mid level clouds work in with high pressure beginning to 
build offshore late. Much of the modeling has a significant amount 
of cloud cover moving in at the mid levels. Thus, have increased 
cloud cover some for Wednesday night. Minimum temperatures will be 
primarily in the 30s, and around 40 for the metro.

&&

.LONG TERM /THURSDAY THROUGH TUESDAY/...
A strong jet currently blasting into the Pacific NW will carve out a 
trof over the East Coast for the end of the week, producing 
extensive cloud cover and periods of rain. The models are in good 
agreement with the overall pattern, and a blend via the NBM has 
generally been followed.

Increasing clouds on Thu with highs around 50. Some lgt rain or a 
few shwrs possible, mainly nwrn zones, with the onset of waa. 
Chances for lgt rain again Thu ngt and Fri, but flow from high pres 
over the N Atlc will limit somewhat 0-3kft moisture. A better 
organized sfc low will likely produce solid rain for Fri ngt. 
Although the timing may ultimately shift with the event still 
several periods away, high confidence that the batch of rain will 
come thru at some point based on the pattern and model consistency 
over the last several days. Right now, again that window looks to be 
Fri ngt. More chances for rain on Sat with the upr trof still 
producing deep sly flow across the region. Moisture likely limited 
with the mid lvls drying a bit, but extensive clouds along with at 
least lgt rain and/or dz with this setup. The upr low is progged to 
reach the cwa on Sun per the 12Z GFS, with the cold pool aloft and 
some dpva, would lean more towards isold-sct shwrs. However, the 12Z 
ECMWF has the whole sys a bit further S, and retrogrades another sfc 
low closer to the region producing more of a stratiform rain, 
particularly ern zones. So, stuck with the NBM pops, and kept pcpn 
as stratiform rain for now until confidence increases one way or the 
other. If the GFS verifies, there could be at least some breaks of 
sunshine on Sun. Better chances for sun on Mon as an h5 ridge builds 
in quickly. It is a quick move however, so increasing high clouds 
could be expected aft a few hours of sun. Exact timing uncertain 
this far out. The next upr low on the map is progged to track across 
ON and QC on Tue, allowing a thermal ridge to build into the cwa 
with highs in the 70s many areas. Based on the llvl flow indicated 
by the GFS, the fcst numbers could be a little too cool for all 
areas as this is prime warm wind direction. Too far out though to 
make changes to the NBM at this point. Low pops for a few shwrs, 
particularly late in the day with peak heating and falling heights 
producing a trigger.

&&

.AVIATION /00Z WEDNESDAY THROUGH SUNDAY/...
high pressure builds into the region through the TAF period. 

VFR through the TAF period. 

WNW wind 20-25kt with gusts 30-35kt through early evening. Peak
gusts could be upwards of 40 kt. Winds diminish late this 
evening and tonight, maintaining a WNW direction. Gusts may 
diminish for a few hours early Wednesday morning, however gust
to around 20kt are expected Wednesday morning/early afternoon
(around 16z-18z).
 
     NY Metro (KEWR/KLGA/KJFK/KTEB) TAF Uncertainty... 

Timing of gusts may be off by an hour or two. 

.OUTLOOK FOR 18Z WEDNESDAY THROUGH SATURDAY...

Wednesday afternoon: VFR.

Thursday: MVFR possible late with a chance of showers.

Friday: IFR possible with showers likely. E-SE wind gusts 15-20 kt 
possible.

Saturday: MVFR or lower possible. Chance of showers. E-SE wind gusts 
15-20 kt possible.

Sunday: VFR. Low end chance of an MVFR shower.

Detailed information, including hourly TAF wind component forecasts, 
can be found at: https:/www.weather.gov/zny/n90

&&

.MARINE...
The gale wrng has been extended til 4Z for all waters. Gales 
give way to small craft conditions across the waters overnight. 
The WNW flow will continue to gradually diminish into the day 
Wednesday with high pressure settling just south of the waters 
as sub advisory conditions return. Ocean seas will continue to 
subside into Wednesday night.

Winds and seas blw sca lvls on Thu, then SCA cond likely Fri into 
Sat with low pres tracking across the region. Mrgnl seas on the 
ocean Sun, then winds and seas likely blw sca lvls on Mon attm.

&&

.HYDROLOGY...
There are no hydrologic concerns through Thursday. 

Periods of rain are likely for the end of the week into the weekend. 
Only minor hydrologic impacts, if any, are expected attm.

&&

.CLIMATE...
The following are record temperatures for Wednesday, April 9th. 
Currently the forecast reflects that records will be approached at 
some of our climate sites with respect to the minimum temperatures.

Record Minimum Temperatures for Wednesday, April 9th    
----------------------------------------------------     
Central Park........25 (1977)      
LaGuardia...........26 (1977)     
Kennedy.............26 (1977)     
Islip...............26 (2018,1982,1977)     
Newark..............26 (1977) 
Bridgeport..........24 (1977)

&&

.OKX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CT...None.
NY...Freeze Warning from midnight tonight to 9 AM EDT Wednesday for 
     NYZ072>075-176>179.
NJ...Freeze Warning from midnight tonight to 9 AM EDT Wednesday for 
     NJZ006-106-108.
MARINE...Gale Warning until midnight EDT tonight for ANZ331-332-335-338-
     340-345-350-353-355.

&&

$$

SYNOPSIS...JMC/JE
NEAR TERM...JMC/JE
SHORT TERM...JE
LONG TERM...JMC
AVIATION...BC
MARINE...JMC/JE
HYDROLOGY...JMC/JE
CLIMATE...
