024 
FXUS61 KOKX 181752
AFDOKX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service New York NY
152 PM EDT Fri Jul 18 2025

.SYNOPSIS...
High pressure moves across the Northeast tonight, then offshore on 
Saturday. A warm front then approaches Saturday night and passes 
through the region late tonight into Sunday, followed by a cold 
front entering late in the day and moving south and east of the
area early Sunday evening. High pressure then dominates through
Wednesday. A cold front slowly approaches late Thursday through
Friday. 

&&

.NEAR TERM /THROUGH TONIGHT/...
High pressure will be centered to our north tonight with a mostly 
clear sky and a continuation of relatively comfortable dewpoints 
mostly in the range of 55-60. This combined with light to calm winds 
will allow low temperatures to fall into the mid 50s well inland and 
across the Pine Barrens, with upper 50s to upper 60s for most other 
locations. As usual, NBM looked too warm for these coolest spots 
during good radiational cooling conditions, so made some local 
adjustments. 

&&

.SHORT TERM /SATURDAY THROUGH SUNDAY/...
High pressure shifts off the southern New England coast on Saturday, 
allowing for moisture to increase on a return southerly flow. PVA 
ahead of a shortwave approaches from the SW in the afternoon, 
bringing the chance of showers, and with enough CAPE, maybe a 
thunderstorm too. Showers would be confined to mostly NE NJ, the 
city, and adjacent areas. NBM looked good for high temperatures.

A warm front approaches during Saturday night and is progged to move 
through part of the forecast area by 12z Sunday. Associated lift 
with and ahead of the front brings an increased chance of showers 
and possible thunderstorm to the entire area. Stuck with NBM PoPs, 
however feel that they could be too low as recent nighttime warm 
front passages have produced higher shower coverage than what 
NBM probabilities have implied. 

The warm front then continues its progress north through the rest of 
the forecast area during Sunday morning. A trailing cold front then 
begins to cross the forecast area during the second half of the 
afternoon. Better overall chances of showers and thunderstorms 
appear to be with the cold front passage. As for severe weather 
chances, SPC has the entire area under a marginal risk (5% chance) 
of severe weather for Sunday. The cold front could be interacting 
with an airmass with 1000-2000 J/kg SBCAPE. With bulk shear of 
potentially 30-40kt, unidirectional flow and an inverted-v profile 
in the boundary layer, strong to severe wind gusts would be possible 
with thunderstorms. 

Heat indices on Sunday reach the mid to upper 90s for the NYC metro 
area, but with just one day of this, no heat advisories would be 
issued.

&&

.LONG TERM /SUNDAY NIGHT THROUGH FRIDAY/...
***KEY POINT***

* Heat and humidity return for the end of next week.

An extended period of quite weather is expected during the long term 
forecast as an upper trough exits the northeast Sunday night with an 
upper ridge building into Thursday, and then weakening as another 
shortwave trough moves into eastern Canada and the northeast late 
Thursday into Friday. At the surface a cold front will be exiting to 
the south and east early Sunday evening with high pressure 
dominating into Thursday. A weak surface trough develops inland 
Wednesday afternoon with a slight chance of precipitation. A 
stronger surface trough develops for late Thursday into Thursday 
night with high pressure weakening and shifting south and east. And 
there will be higher, and more widespread, chances for 
precipitation. Temperatures will be near seasonal normals Sunday 
night into Tuesday night, then the heat will build with temperatures 
above normal Wednesday into the end of the week. Humidity levels 
will also be increasing beginning Wednesday as a return flow setup 
up later Wednesday with high pressure moving east of the area. For 
Thursday and Friday with the combination of heat, with highs in the 
upper 80s to mid 90s, and humidity, with dew points in the lower 70s, 
there is the potential for a heat advisory for Thursday and Friday 
with a 2 day period of heat indices reaching 95 to 103 across much 
of the area.

&&

.AVIATION /18Z FRIDAY THROUGH WEDNESDAY/...
High pressure builds across the area through tonight, then offshore 
on Saturday.

VFR. SHRA/TSRA is possible late Saturday, but coverage and timing 
varies too much to include in the TAFs, at this time. 

Winds around 10 kts will diminish into this evening becoming light 
and variable or N below 5 kts overnight. Tomorrow winds become S 5-
10 kts.

 ...NY Metro (KEWR/KLGA/KJFK/KTEB) TAF Uncertainty...

No amendments expected at this time. 

.OUTLOOK FOR 18Z SATURDAY THROUGH WEDNESDAY... 

Saturday Night: Mainly VFR. Showers/isolated thunderstorms, 
possible. 

Saturday night and Sunday: Showers possible with a chance of 
thunderstorms. MVFR or lower conditions possible.

Sunday night through Wednesday: VFR. 

Detailed information, including hourly TAF wind component forecasts, 
can be found at: https:/www.weather.gov/zny/n90

&&

.MARINE...
Sub-advisory conditions expected through Sunday with a weak
enough pressure gradient in place. Winds and seas remain below 
SCA thresholds across the forecast waters from Sunday night 
through Wednesday night as high pressure dominates.

&&

.HYDROLOGY...
Widespread hydrologic impacts are not anticipated through this 
weekend. However, with precipitable waters values near 2 inches, any 
thunderstorms could produce brief/locally heavy rain rainfall. 
Higher overall chances of thunderstorms would be Sunday afternoon, 
but storms would be moving quickly enough to mitigate a flash 
flooding threat.

There are no hydrologic impacts expected from Sunday night through 
next week with dry weather much of the time.

&&

.TIDES/COASTAL FLOODING...
A moderate rip current risk has been forecast for the Nassau and
Suffolk beaches for today, with 4-ft wind waves at 6-sec period
still out of the SW. The rip current risk for Sat has been 
changed to low, with 2-ft southerly wind waves at 6-sec period
and S winds mostly 10 kt or less.

&&

.OKX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CT...None.
NY...None.
NJ...None.
MARINE...None.

&&

$$

SYNOPSIS...JC/MET
NEAR TERM...JC
SHORT TERM...JC
LONG TERM...MET
AVIATION...BR
MARINE...JC/MET
HYDROLOGY...JC/MET
TIDES/COASTAL FLOODING...
