873 
FXUS61 KOKX 250249
AFDOKX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service New York NY
1049 PM EDT Thu Jul 24 2025

.SYNOPSIS...
High pressure exerts control into Friday afternoon, before a 
cold front moves through the area late Friday into Friday 
evening. High pressure briefly builds into the area Friday 
night into Saturday. A weak frontal system moves across the area
Saturday Night into Sunday. High pressure then builds in for 
Monday and Tuesday. A cold front moves across the region mid- 
week.

&&

.NEAR TERM /UNTIL 6 AM FRIDAY MORNING/...
Upper lever ridge flattens tonight into Friday, as a northern 
stream shortwave slides from Ontario/Quebec towards northern New
England. Bermuda high pressure briefly exerts control tonight 
into Friday with a strengthening return flow.

Dry but increasingly warm and muggy conditions tonight in gusty
S/SW flow, with lows in the mid to upper 70s for NYC/NJ metro 
and lower to mid 70s elsewhere.

&&

.SHORT TERM /6 AM FRIDAY MORNING THROUGH SATURDAY NIGHT/...
Key points...

* Heat alerts remain in effect for Friday. One day of 100 to
  105F heat indices are expected for most of the area.

* Isolated to scattered severe thunderstorms are possible Friday
  aft/eve, with damaging wind gusts the primary threat. There is
  also low and localized flash flood threat. 

Upper lever ridge flattens Thursday Night into Friday, as a northern 
stream shortwave slides from Ontario/Quebec towards northern New 
England. 

Peak heat and humidity continues on target for Friday with axis
of heat (850mb temps of near 20c) sinking SE towards the region
with likely low-level moisture pooling ahead of approaching 
cold front (lower 70s to 75F Td) resulting in heat indices in 
the lower 100s to 105F for much of the area. Extreme heat 
warning continues for NE NJ with highest confidence in 
widespread 105F heat indices, with heat advisories for most of 
the remainder of the area with heat indices in the 100 to 105F 
range.

In addition to the heat threat, a pre-frontal trough/cold front 
will be pressing down on a moderately unstable airmass, with 
marginal deep layer shear presenting potential for isolated to 
scattered severe thunderstorms in the late aft/eve. Models in a 
bit better agreement on a more distinct convectively enhanced 
vort axis (originating from a Mid- Mississippi river shortwave 
this afternoon) approaching the area tomorrow afternoon and 
crossing in the evening. Along with potential of a bit better 
alignment of steering flow/shear with the front in a w to e 
fashion as the front sags south, this would favor a lean towards
a scattered to broken line of of thunderstorm activity, and 
scattered severe threat for much of the area.

Limiting factor for organized convection continues to be weak 
shortwave forcing/height falls this far south as compared to 
central and northern New England, marginal deep layer shear, and
weak mid- level lapse rates. Primary threat will be damaging 
wind gusts from wet downbursts in primarily a uni-directional 
WNW flow aloft, high PWAT environment with a bit of mid-level 
dry air entrainment potential, and steep low-level lapse rates. 
See hydrology section for low and localized flash flood threat 
in a 2+ STD PWAT environment ( 2 1/2"-2 1/2" PWATs)

Cold front expected to push SE of the region by midnight Friday
as northern stream shortwave slides through northern New 
England, with a relatively cooler and drier airmass filtering 
in its wake as high pressure builds into the region.

Northern stream shortwave slides east of northern New England 
Saturday AM, with northern periphery of southern ridging nosing back 
into the area. At the surface, high pressure briefly build towards 
the region from the north on Saturday and overhead Saturday Night.

Dry conditions expected on Saturday, with noticeably drier and cooler
airmass advecting in on gusty N/NE flow on Saturday, although 
still running slight above seasonable with highs in the mid to 
upper 80s, and heat indices similar. Near seasonable temps for 
Saturday Night with increasing humidity levels as return flow 
develops.

&&

.LONG TERM /SUNDAY THROUGH THURSDAY/...
Key Points:

* Showers and thunderstorms expected the second half of Sunday with 
  a frontal system. Some thunderstorms will be capable of gusty 
  winds and heavy rainfall.

* High heat and humidity return early to mid next week. Latest 
  forecast has widespread upper 90s Max Heat Index values for 
  Monday, with upper 90s to low 100s on Tuesday. There is potential 
  for hot and humid conditions to linger into Wednesday, but this 
  will depend on timing of a cold front.

* The cold front moves across the area mid-week. This will end the 2-
  3 days of hot and humid conditions. Showers and thunderstorms 
  likely accompany the frontal passage.

Stuck close to the NBM, with the biggest changes being to lower 
dewpoints next week. The NBM has been consistently a bit too high 
with dewpoints on days where deeper mixing is expected.

Other uncertainty with the forecast lies on exact evolution and 
timing of a weak frontal system that may impact the area Sunday. Low 
confidence PoPs given the offshore high trending stronger and 
potential for an MCS to bleed into the area.

Otherwise, there is also some disagreement on timing of a cold 
frontal passage mid week. Latest GFS holds off the front until later 
on Wednesday. This could allow higher heat and humidity to linger 
into Wednesday, especially for the southern half of the area like 
northeast NJ, NYC and Long Island.

&&

.AVIATION /03Z FRIDAY THROUGH TUESDAY/...
Offshore high pressure remains in control through tonight. A
cold front moves through the area late Friday.

VFR for the most part. MVFR vsby, or briefly lower, is possible
in showers and thunderstorms Friday afternoon and evening. Kept
PROB30 for this activity in the TAF. There is also potential for
some of the storms to be severe, with damaging wind gusts being
the primary threat.

Southwest winds diminish overnight. They pick up Friday morning
up to around 10-12 kt. Winds become NW behind the frontal
passage in the late afternoon/evening. Occasional gusts up to 
about 20 kt are possible during Friday afternoon.

 ...NY Metro (KEWR/KLGA/KJFK/KTEB) TAF Uncertainty...

Keeping TSRA in PROB30 for now given uncertainty in coverage.

Occasional gusts up to 20 kt are possible Friday afternoon.

.OUTLOOK FOR 00Z SATURDAY THROUGH TUESDAY... 

Saturday: VFR.

Saturday night - Sunday: Mainly VFR. MVFR or lower possible in 
any showers or thunderstorms.

Monday: VFR.

Tuesday: Mainly VFR with possible MVFR or lower in showers and
thunderstorms.

Detailed information, including hourly TAF wind component 
forecasts, can be found at: https:/www.weather.gov/zny/n90

&&

.MARINE...
Marginal 25 kt gusts are possible in a S flow tonight on the 
ocean waters, mouth of NY Harbor and southern bays of W LI, and 
possibly Fri aft/eve ahead of a cold frontal passage. Isolated 
to scattered severe thunderstorms are possible ahead of a cold 
front passage Friday afternoon through the evening. 

A brief period of 20 kt gusts are possible in wake of cold 
frontal passage Saturday night into Sunday morning. 

Given a weak pressure gradient, winds and waves will largely stay 
below Small Craft Advisory criteria Sunday through the middle of 
next week. The best chance at getting close to 25 kt gusts right now 
will be ahead of and behind a cold frontal passage sometime late 
Tuesday or Wednesday.

&&

.HYDROLOGY...
Primarily a minor urban and poor drainage flooding threat with 
scattered thunderstorm activity Friday afternoon that could 
produce rainfall rates of 2+"/hr with PWATS as high as 2"-2 
1/2", but will be overall progressive limiting duration over an
one area. Based on these potential rainfall rates, there is a 
low and localized flash flood threat with any localized 
repetitive thunderstorm activity, particularly if the cold front
orients in a more W to E fashion as indicated by some CAMs. A 
general 1/4 to 3/4" basin average, with a low and localized 
probability for 2-3" in only a couple of hours with any 
training.

Showers and thunderstorms associated with a frontal system 
could produce locally heavy downpours on Sunday that result in 
nuisance flooding, but the overall flood threat appears low at 
this time.

&&

.TIDES/COASTAL FLOODING...
A moderate rip current risk is likely on Friday with southerly 
wind waves building to 3 to 4 ft.

&&

.CLIMATE...
Daily record high temperatures maybe be tied or broken Friday 
July 25th. Here are the current records for the day...

EWR 99/2016 
BDR 93/2001 
NYC 97/1999 
LGA 97/1999 
JFK 93/2010 
ISP 94/1987

&&

.OKX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CT...Air Quality Alert until 11 PM EDT this evening for CTZ005>007.
     Heat Advisory from 11 AM to 8 PM EDT Friday for CTZ005>011.
     Air Quality Alert from 11 AM to 11 PM EDT Friday for 
     CTZ009>012.
NY...Heat Advisory from 11 AM to 8 PM EDT Friday for NYZ067>075-
     078>080-176>179.
     Air Quality Alert from 11 AM to 11 PM EDT Friday for 
     NYZ069>075-078>081-176>179.
NJ...Heat Advisory from 11 AM to 8 PM EDT Friday for NJZ002.
     Air Quality Alert from 11 AM to 11 PM EDT Friday for NJZ004-
     006-103>108.
     Extreme Heat Warning from 11 AM to 8 PM EDT Friday for NJZ004-
     006-103>108.
MARINE...None.

&&

$$

SYNOPSIS...JT/NV
NEAR TERM...NV
SHORT TERM...NV
LONG TERM...JT
AVIATION...BC/JT
MARINE...JT/NV
HYDROLOGY...JT/NV
TIDES/COASTAL FLOODING...
CLIMATE...
