678 
FXUS61 KOKX 142345
AFDOKX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service New York NY
745 PM EDT Mon Apr 14 2025

.SYNOPSIS...
A frontal boundary approaches and pushes through late tonight. 
A series of weak troughs of low pressure pivot through by mid 
week. High pressure builds in to the west Wednesday night and 
slides south of the area Thursday, and pushes offshore Thursday 
night and Friday. A frontal system may impact the region Friday 
night through Saturday night. High pressure returns for Sunday. 
Another frontal system may impact the area late Monday.

&&

.NEAR TERM /THROUGH TUESDAY/...
Forecast on track with updates for current conditions, mainly
for temperatures and dew points.

A high pressure ridge slides east this evening with the 500 mb 
ridge passage working through early. Any sfc ridging gets 
offshore with mid level height falls increasing closer to 
midnight. This all takes place as a fairly deep upper level low 
pivots just north of the Western Great Lakes into far Southern 
Canada. Therefore clouds lower and thicken quickly as indicated 
by BUFKIT profiles and NWP. The higher res NWP indicates rain 
shower activity arriving towards midnight with much, if not all 
of the evening dry from the city on east. Further west a few 
showers could arrive by 02-03z. The showers should only last 3 
to 4 hours as the boundary responsible should pivot through 
fairly quickly early Tuesday morning. The boundary which will be
primarily an elevated warm / occluded front by the time it 
arrives will produce showers but with an overall lack of 
instability and the cold pool aloft lagging behind some there is
not an expectation for any thunder late tonight. The winds 
ahead of the boundary will be primarily out of the south, but 
then begin to veer towards daybreak. With clouds and a southerly
flow temperatures will average at least a few degrees above 
normal with mainly upper 40s to lower 50s for lows.

The boundary at the sfc gets east of the area quickly Tuesday 
morning with the winds starting to gust towards late morning and
around midday. The winds during the afternoon should gust to 
around 35 mph, with a few gust perhaps getting briefly to 40 mph
towards 21- 22z. The lowest levels will gradually get drier 
through the day, that by afternoon a quasi V-type sounding is 
indicated via BUFKIT profiles. There are some indications of mid
level CAPE as mid and upper levels cool as the upper level low 
generates somewhat of a synoptic B type sounding with lowering 
near sfc dew points. This indicates a chance of some scattered 
lower top type convection. Any activity would be widely 
scattered with only minimal CAPE available at around 100 j/kg. 
With the cloud layer quite dry any shower activity may be able 
to generate localized 40 to 45 kt gusts, but with coverage in 
question as the average RH in the column lowers through the 
afternoon. In summary, the degree of coverage of any shower / 
convective activity is in doubt resulting in a lower confidence 
forecast. Will therefore go with chance PoPs and for now will 
keep out any enhanced wording with regard to any strong wind 
gusts or small hail / graupel potential. If confidence of 
occurrence grows subsequent shifts can add any necessary details
into the official forecast. Variable amounts of clouds are 
anticipated into the late afternoon with temperatures climbing 
above normal with lots of lower and middle 60s, with a few upper
60s possible which is above normal for mid April.

&&

.SHORT TERM /TUESDAY NIGHT THROUGH WEDNESDAY/...
For early Tuesday evening there may still be a few isolated 
sprinkles/ showers but with the lower portion of the column 
getting drier overall with cold advection. With a pressure 
gradient still in place winds will remain gusty overall. With 
the winds remaining in place temperatures should only get back 
into the upper 30s to lower 40s, but it will feel a good 7 to 10
degrees colder with the wind.

On Wednesday a deep layered W to NW flow will continue as low 
pressure will continue to move through the Canadian maritimes 
and the NW Atlantic. This, along with high pressure back over 
the Tennessee Valley the region will remain in a fairly tight 
pressure gradient. This will keep breezy conditions in place 
with winds likely gusting to around 30 mph throughout much of 
the day. A W to WNW flow this time of year can typically lead to
warmer than expected temperatures. However, a strong cP air 
mass will be building across and should keep temperatures below 
average with mainly lower half of the 50s for daytime highs 
despite a fair amount of sunshine.

&&

.LONG TERM /WEDNESDAY NIGHT THROUGH MONDAY/...
Generally a tranquil extended period as high pressure will be 
building into area Wednesday night, and moving offshore Thursday
night into Friday. There is a little more uncertainty with the 
forecast for Friday night through Saturday night as an upper 
trough passing north of the region is now a little more 
amplified, and a zonal flow may set up across the region, 
allowing a frontal boundary to linger across the region. While 
there is some forcing along the frontal boundary, moisture is 
more limited, and light precipitation will be possible for an 
extended period of time. A high amplitude ridge then builds in 
for Sunday into Monday, and may slow the eastward progression of
the next system for the beginning of next week. The 
deterministic NBM guidance was generally followed with few 
targets of opportunity early in the period, and with uncertainty
later in the forecast period. Only went toward the 75th and 
90th percentiles for winds and gusts Wednesday night and 
Thursday, with the potential for gusty conditions.

Temperatures will only be up to 5 degrees below normal 
Wednesday night through Thursday night, and then with a return 
flow and increasing southerly wind temperatures increase to 
above normal Friday night through Saturday night, with 
Saturday's highs potentially 10 to 15 degrees above normal.

&&

.AVIATION /00Z TUESDAY THROUGH SATURDAY/...
A frontal system will impact the area late tonight into 
Tuesday.

VFR conditions into late tonight/early hours of Tuesday.
However, an approaching warm front is expected to bring IFR 
conditions into the area beginning around 08Z and continuing 
into Tuesday morning, to 14Z/15Z, except at KSWF which remains 
well north of the warm front, and probably does not even have 
MVFR conditions, and have bee more optimistic in the TAF. 
Showers are forecast to impact the terminals from 04Z to 09Z. 
Instability is weak and a thunderstorm seems unlikely at this 
time. Conditions improve to VFR for all but KGON in the 12Z-14Z 
timeframe. It may take until mid afternoon, 19Z, at KGON for 
VFR.

S/SW winds will be around 10 kt this afternoon with local seabreeze 
enhancements likely. KEWR and KTEB may shift more to the SE late 
this afternoon and early this evening. Winds for a time overnight 
may go light and variable, especially across the NYC terminals and 
KISP as the warm front will be in close proximity. WSW winds 
gradually ramp up in the morning to 10-15kt with G20kt, then 20-25kt 
G30-35kt in the afternoon following a cold frontal passage. 

 ...NY Metro (KEWR/KLGA/KJFK/KTEB) TAF Uncertainty... 

There is a chance that ceilings will not be as low as forecast
late tonight and may be more around 1K ft. Onset of higher winds
and gusts early Tuesday morning may be an hour or two earlier.
And a few gusts during the afternoon may approach 40kt in gusty
showers.


.OUTLOOK FOR 00Z WEDNESDAY THROUGH SATURDAY...

Tuesday night: VFR. W winds G25-35kt early in the evening, 
diminishing to G20-25kt late.

Wednesday: VFR. WNW winds G25-30kt. 

Thursday: VFR. NW winds G20-25kt.

Friday: VFR. Chance of showers at night. S winds G15-20kt.

Saturday: Chance of MVFR in showers. SW winds G15-20kt. 

Detailed information, including hourly TAF wind component forecasts, 
can be found at: https:/www.weather.gov/zny/n90

&&

.MARINE...
No changes to winds and seas at this time.

Small craft conditions develop from west to east quickly 
Tuesday. A few marginal gale force gusts are possible for some 
of the western waters late in the day and into a portion of 
Tuesday evening. Otherwise, small craft conditions should 
persist at least through the day Wednesday and possibly into a 
portion of Wednesday night as low pressure tracks north and high
pressure builds to the west. Ocean seas east of Fire Island 
Inlet may linger about 5 feet until toward Thursday morning. 
Therefore, will not extend the SCA into Wednesday night at this 
time, as timing is uncertain. 

Winds and seas remain below advisory levels through Friday. 
Then with an increasing southerly flow ahead of the next frontal
system small craft conditions will be developing on the ocean 
waters Friday night, and continue through Saturday. And, gusts 
will be near 25 kt across the Long Island bays, and eastern Long
Island Sound Friday night through Saturday. Conditions then 
subside late Saturday through Saturday night, falling below 
advisory levels by Sunday morning, as high pressure builds into 
the forecast waters.

&&

.HYDROLOGY...
There are no hydrologic concerns throughout the forecast period.

&&

.OKX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CT...None.
NY...None.
NJ...None.
MARINE...Small Craft Advisory from 2 PM Tuesday to 6 PM EDT Wednesday 
     for ANZ331-332-340-345-350-353.
     Small Craft Advisory from noon Tuesday to 6 PM EDT Wednesday 
     for ANZ335-338-355.

&&

$$

SYNOPSIS...JE/MET
NEAR TERM...JE/MET
SHORT TERM...JE
LONG TERM...MET
AVIATION...MET
MARINE...JE/MET
HYDROLOGY...JE/MET
