663 
FXUS61 KOKX 141142
AFDOKX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service New York NY
742 AM EDT Mon Jul 14 2025

.SYNOPSIS...
A weak cold front approaches the region from the west today,
slowly moving through tonight and to the south Tuesday morning.
The frontal boundary likely dissipates just south of the area 
midweek, allowing Bermuda ridging to exert more influence on the
area for mid to late week. A cold frontal likely moves through 
the region this weekend.

&&

.NEAR TERM /THROUGH TONIGHT/...
Key Points...

* Scattered to numerous instances of flash flooding possible
  across NE NJ and LoHud. Isolated to scattered instances of
  flash flooding possible for NYC and SW CT. Flood Watch in
  Effect from 2pm to midnight.

Shortwave trough axis over eastern Great Lakes/Ohio Valley this 
morning slides east towards the region late this afternoon/evening 
and slowly across the area tonight into early Tue Am, with a 
weak surface trough across central NY/PA sliding east towards 
the region this afternoon and across this evening into early Tue
AM.

Convection continues to wind down early this morning as it 
traverses east across the Lohud/NE NJ, but with a marginally 
unstable and moist airmass potential for isolated heavy 
downpours/tsra for the early morning commute N&W of NYC. 
Otherwise, morning stratus should give way to breaks of sun in 
the afternoon, particularly away from the immediate south 
coasts.

Daytime heating is expected to develop at least marginal 
surface instability (locally moderate with more extensive breaks
of sun N&W of NYC). In a tropical environment with approaching
shortwave, this will be supportive of scattered tstm 
development along outflow from decaying AM convection and sea- 
breeze boundary to the N&W of NYC this afternoon, and then 
scattered to numerous tstm development along/ahead of 
approaching pre-frontal trough late this afternoon/evening. 

Primary threat will be for torrential downpours from tstm 
activity with 2+"/hr rainfall rates likely in a tall and narrow
CAPE profile environ, PWATS approaching 2.25" (+2 std), deep 
warm cloud layer of 12-13kft, and weak SW steering flow (15kt) 
aligned with trough/seabreeze/outflow boundary. Highest 
coverage/confidence in this activity is across NE NJ and LoHud 
in vicinity of sea-breeze/outflow convergence boundary and then  
followed by approaching trough, with scattered to numerous 
instances of flash flooding possible (25-35% prob w/i 25 miles 
of a point). Farther east across NYC and SW CT, confidence in 
coverage of convection is slightly lower (10-20% prob w/i 25 
miles of a point prob) as sea-breeze/outflow activity likely 
ends up to the N&W, with more organized trough activity late in 
the day potentially weakening in intensity with waning 
instability, although this could be counteracted by potential 
increase in llj and shear/helicity with hints of weak surface 
wave development. In any case, a lower confidence on flash flood
threat for this area, presenting more of an isolated to 
scattered flash flood instance threat.

Weak low-level shear/helicity profiles and weak llj appear to 
be a limitation for sustained updraft and backing-building 
storms and a moderate flash flood threat for NE NJ/LoHUd, with 
late trough approach and waning instability in the evening a 
possible flash flood limitation for NYC and SW CT. 

After collab with WPC and surrounding offices will issue Flood 
Watch from 2pm to Midnight today for NE NJ, LoHud, NYC and 
interior SW CT for above flash flood threat, with a widespread 
1-3" of rainfall likely, and locally as high as 5", for NE NJ 
and LoHud where most persistent/widespread convection is likely 
based on predicted synoptic/mesoscale environment and CAM 
output. HREF showing a 50% prob of 3"/3 hr across NE NJ, which
is a rare signal. Meanwhile, a widespread 1/2 to 1 1/2" of 
rainfall is likely with localized rainfall totals of up to 3" 
possible for NYC and SW CT. Most of this could fall in as little
as 3 hr period this aft/eve.

In addition, isolated strong to severe wet downburst possible 
in marginally unstable airmass this afternoon as well, mainly 
N&W of NYC.

Shortwave trough axis slowly slides east tonight into early 
Tuesday morning, with weak surface trough axis sliding 
southeastward through LI/CT. Convective coverage and intensity 
will wane overnight into early Tue AM with waning instability, 
but potential for locally heavy downpours and embedded tstm 
activity to continue in vicinity of the trough and possible weak
wave development, particularly across NYC/LI/SE CT.

Seasonably warm and very muggy conditions today into tonight.

&&

.SHORT TERM /TUESDAY THROUGH WEDNESDAY NIGHT/...
Key Points...

* Moderate potential for heat indices of 95-100F on Wednesday 

Shortwave trough axis slowly slides east Tuesday morning, with weak 
trough axis likely dropping south. Potential for locally heavy 
downpours and embedded tstm activity in vicinity of the trough 
across LI/SE CT Tue AM, then gradual mid-level drying 
conditions expected Tue afternoon in wake. Low chance of 
afternoon shra/tsra activity for NYC and pts N&W Tue aft during 
peak heating. 

Seasonable temps and very humid conditions continue Tue into 
Tue Night. Patchy stratus/fog development possible Tue Night/Wed
Am in the moist and weak flow environment, particularly along 
the coast. 

Shortwave ridging surface/aloft should allow for more in the way
of sunshine on Wednesday, with warm advective SW flow 
establishing around Bermuda high. Potential for start of a mid
to late week heat wave, with widespread daytime temps in the 
upper 80s to lower 90s, and Tds in the lower to mid 70s. 
Widespread heat indices of 95-100F possible. Late day/evening 
convection possible with approach of southern shortwave/pre-
frontal trough.

&&

.LONG TERM /THURSDAY THROUGH SUNDAY/...
Key Points...

*While still some uncertainty, there is the potential for a heat 
wave to continue Thursday and Friday for many areas with max heat 
index values between 95 and 105.

*Relatively active pattern with chances for several days of 
afternoon showers and thunderstorms.

A frontal boundary will likely stall just offshore and linger, 
possibly lifting north of the area Thursday. A frontal system may 
then impact the area later in the week. Aloft, the pattern stays the 
same through the period. Although we are under some high heights, we 
are somewhat on the eastern end of a broad upper level trough 
centered over central Canada and few shortwaves likely pass through.

With strong Bermuda high in place, a S/SW flow will allow plenty of 
moisture to be sent our way. This combined with above normal high 
temperatures brings some potential for a heat wave, with heat index 
of 95-105 Thursday and Friday. However, there still is uncertainty 
especially given the potential for convection and slight 
inconsistencies in a late week frontal system among the guidance.

Too early to talk specifics when it comes to severe or flooding 
concerns with the aforementioned convection. These details will be 
ironed over the next few days. There is plenty of moisture around 
with pwats 1.75-2.00+ for Thursday and Friday so any convection that 
does develop will likely be able to produce heavy downpours. As for 
severe, while we are pretty unstable, shear looks weak through much 
of the period.

&&

.AVIATION /12Z MONDAY THROUGH FRIDAY/...
A weak cold front gradually approaches the area today, crossing
tonight.

MVFR to start off for most terminals. Conditions improve to VFR
around midday today or into the afternoon at most the 
terminals, though KGON may only improve to MVFR. There continues
to be a lot of uncertainty with the timing of flight change 
categories. 

Widely scattered showers will move through, mainly 
for the metro terminals and points N and W early this morning. 
Showers and thunderstorms are becoming increasingly likely this
afternoon. Higher confidence for the metro terminals, KSWF, and
KHPN with less confidence for eastern terminals. Best timing is
22Z today through 02Z Tuesday, though thunder may occur anytime
after 18Z today. Thunder become less likely after 02Z Tuesday, 
but an isolated thunderstorm may still move through the 
terminals. Showers with heavy rain is more likely, which will 
continue to reduce flight categories to MVFR or lower through 
the remainder of the forecast period.

A southerly flow develops this afternoon with speeds to around 
10 kt.


 ...NY Metro (KEWR/KLGA/KJFK/KTEB) TAF Uncertainty...

Amendments expected due to changes in flight categories  
through the forecast period as well as with the thunderstorms
moving through this afternoon into the evening.

Higher confidence in thunderstorms this afternoon at KEWR and 
KTEB.


.OUTLOOK FOR 12Z TUESDAY THROUGH FRIDAY... 

Tuesday-Friday: Mainly VFR. MVFR or lower in any showers or 
thunderstorms in the afternoon and evening.

Detailed information, including hourly TAF wind component forecasts, 
can be found at: https:/www.weather.gov/zny/n90

&&

.MARINE...
With a weak pressure gradient, winds and waves likely remain 
below Small Craft Advisory criteria through the coming weekend. 
However, a relatively active pattern is expected next week with 
chances of afternoon showers and thunderstorms for several days.
Winds and waves will be higher in any storms.

&&

.HYDROLOGY...
*Flood Watch issued from 2pm to Midnight today for NE NJ, 
 LoHud, NYC and interior SW CT. 

A widespread 1-3" of rainfall is likely, and locally as 
high as 5", for NE NJ and LoHud where most persistent/widespread
convection is likely based on predicted synoptic/mesoscale 
environment and CAM output. A widespread 1/2 to 1 1/2" of 
rainfall is likely with localized rainfall totals of up to 3" 
possible for NYC and SW CT. Most of this could fall in as 
little as 3 hr period this aft/eve.

Highest coverage/confidence in this activity across NE NJ and 
LoHud in vicinity of sea-breeze/outflow convergence boundary 
followed by approaching trough with scattered to numerous 
instances of flash flooding possible (15-25% prob w/i 25 miles 
of a point).

Rainfall rates of 2+"/hr possible with stronger and/or
repetitive convection, which would cause localized instances of
severe flooding.

At this time, there are no significant flood concerns Tuesday 
through next weekend.

&&

.TIDES/COASTAL FLOODING...
For Atlantic Ocean beaches, the rip current risk is low on
Today and Tuesday with generally a 10kt or less onshore flow 
and a weakening S/SE swell.

&&

.OKX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CT...Flood Watch from 2 PM EDT this afternoon through this evening 
     for CTZ005-006-009.
NY...Flood Watch from 2 PM EDT this afternoon through this evening 
     for NYZ067>075-176-178.
NJ...Flood Watch from 2 PM EDT this afternoon through this evening 
     for NJZ002-004-006-103>108.
MARINE...None.

&&

$$

SYNOPSIS...JP/NV
NEAR TERM...NV
SHORT TERM...NV
LONG TERM...JP
AVIATION...JP
MARINE...JP/NV
HYDROLOGY...JP/NV
TIDES/COASTAL FLOODING...
