465 
FXUS61 KOKX 081845
AFDOKX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service New York NY
245 PM EDT Sun Jun 8 2025

.SYNOPSIS...
A warm front slowly lifts towards the area through Monday. The 
slow moving frontal system will then work across the area
Tuesday and will push offshore by Wed morning. High pressure 
then remains near the region through early Friday. Another 
frontal system may affect the region late Friday and lingers 
into the weekend.

&&

.NEAR TERM /THROUGH MONDAY/...
An area of rain over cntrl PA will approach late tngt, and with the 
support of another shrtwv on Mon, produce shwrs late tngt and into 
the first part of Mon for the cwa. The approaching upr trof will 
also help to lift the frontal boundary extending off the
delmarva nwd towards the area thru the period. The local area 
however will remain N of the front thru the day on Mon. This may
allow for some stratus and fog to impact the region late in the
day Mon, aft the shwrs exit.

Cloudy tngt with low temps close to normal. High temps blw normal on 
Mon with an ely flow across the region.

&&

.SHORT TERM /MONDAY NIGHT/...
Upr trof continues to approach Mon ngt. This will draw the warm 
front further nwd. The blended approach via the NBM keeps the front 
S of the cwa at 12Z Tue. This is supported by the 12Z NAM. The GFS 
is a bit further N, perhaps allowing the front to get into LI. At 
the same time, chances for rain will increase thru the ngt with 
lowering heights and increasing dpva. With the front expected to 
remain mainly S, any convective activity is expected to be elevated 
attm. Therefore, the fcst is to keep temps right around normal, with 
increasing chances for shwrs and embedded tstms, especially aft 
midnight.

&&

.LONG TERM /TUESDAY THROUGH SUNDAY/...
**Key Points**

* A frontal system will impact the area Tuesday, bringing showers 
  and thunderstorms especially in the afternoon. Dry conditions 
  expected thereafter into the end of the week.

* A warming trend Wednesday through Friday with high temperatures 
  peaking Thursday in the upper 80s and low 90s. Dewpoints should 
  remain marginal keeping the heat index near the actual temperature 
  during this period.

Good model agreement on a broad upper trough located over the Great 
Lakes/Ontario to start the period. This trough weakens as it heads 
to the east into Wednesday, as the upper flow becomes more zonal, 
with some height rises and weak ridging into the end the of week. 

At the surface, a warm front associated with the aforementioned 
upper low is north of the area by Tuesday morning placing the area 
in the warm sector. Showers and embedded thunderstorms should 
increase in coverage as the day wears on as a slow moving cold front 
and embedded sfc low approaches. PWAT values from model soundings 
look to be in the 1.5-1.9" range, which is near or exceeding the SPC 
climatology for the date (1.55" is the 90th percentile). Given the 
weak mid level flow and parallel flow nature relative to the cold 
front, storms will be slow moving and potentially backbuilding, 
increasing the potential for a localized flash flood threat. This is 
especially true north and west of NYC during the day on Tuesday. 
While shear profiles look decent for organized thunderstorms, 
instability looks rather marginal, minimizing the threat for 
thunderstorms to be severe. The cold front and any associated 
precipitation should be east of the region by Tuesday night. 

High pressure then builds in for Wednesday through Friday, with 
rising heights. By Friday into next weekend, a faster moving upper 
low pivots through eastern Canada, bringing additional precipitation 
chances through next weekend, along with cooler temperatures.

&&

.AVIATION /18Z SUNDAY THROUGH FRIDAY/...
A frontal boundary will remain stalled south of the area 
terminals through Monday.

VFR conditions will lower to MVFR late this afternoon then to
IFR as a frontal boundary begins to push north. Rain and drizzle
expected tonight and into Monday morning. IFR/MVFR conditions
continue on Monday.

Easterly winds will continue through Monday around 08-12kt. 

 ...NY Metro (KEWR/KLGA/KJFK/KTEB) TAF Uncertainty... 

Amendments possible throughout the entire TAF period for changing 
flight categories, especially during this afternoon/evening.

.OUTLOOK FOR 18Z TUESDAY THROUGH FRIDAY... 

Tuesday: MVFR or lower possible with shwrs and tstms. Varying 
winds with a frontal sys.

Wednesday - Thursday: VFR with W flow. 

Friday: VFR.

Detailed information, including hourly TAF wind component forecasts, 
can be found at: https:/www.weather.gov/zny/n90

&&

.MARINE...
Persistent E winds will build seas to around 4 ft tngt on the ocean. 
With winds blw criteria on all waters, so no sca has been issued 
with seas blw the 5 ft criteria. Winds lessen late Mon and Mon ngt, 
with seas subsiding slightly.

SCA conditions on the ocean waters are possible Tuesday night into 
Wednesday with seas to 5ft in southerly swells.  SCA conditions look 
to wane by Wednesday afternoon, with sub SCA conditions likely 
through Friday.

&&

.HYDROLOGY...
No hydrologic impacts are expected thru Mon ngt. Showers and 
thunderstorms Tuesday look to produce a widespread 0.25" to 
0.75" of precipitation. Localized amounts of 1+" are possible 
given the antecedent airmass in place (PWAT >1.5"), especially 
northwest of NYC, though the threat appears isolated. Thus, WPC 
maintains a marginal risk of flash flooding here, though the 
threat looks isolated. No significant hydrologic issues are 
expected thereafter, Wednesday through Sunday, of next week.

&&

.TIDES/COASTAL FLOODING...
SE swells remain at 3-4 ft today, mixed with a long period SE 
background swell and a building 2 to 3 ft E wind wave. This should 
maintain a moderate to high risk of rips with a west to east sweep 
of 3 to 4 ft, occasionally 5 ft breaking surf. An E to W longshore 
current will likely become favored in the afternoon.

A moderate to possibly high rip risk likely on Monday with 3-4 
ft ESE wind waves building, and a background of 1-2 ft SE/S 
swells. E to W longshore current would be favored.

&&

.OKX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CT...None.
NY...High Risk for Rip Currents until 9 PM EDT this evening for NYZ075-
     080-081-178-179.
NJ...None.
MARINE...None.

&&

$$

SYNOPSIS...JMC/DBR
NEAR TERM...JMC
SHORT TERM...JMC
LONG TERM...DBR
AVIATION...20
MARINE...JMC/DBR
HYDROLOGY...JMC/DBR
TIDES/COASTAL FLOODING...
