888 
FXUS61 KOKX 062347
AFDOKX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service New York NY
647 PM EST Mon Jan 6 2025

.SYNOPSIS...
Broad low pressure lingers over the Maritimes as high pressure 
slowly builds in from the west through Friday. Low pressure
passes to the south Saturday into Saturday night. High pressure
returns for Sunday and the beginning of next week.

&&

.NEAR TERM /THROUGH TUESDAY/...
Scattered flurries continue along the coast as low pressure
moves east/northeast from the Carolina coast.

Accumulating light snow ended late this afternoon, and once the
flurries end dry conditions are expected the remainder of 
tonight. Re issued the Special Weather Statement through
midnight to account for potential icy/slick conditions on 
untreated surfaces. May need to extend this for overnight due 
to lingering black ice or slick spots. 

Otherwise, low pressure quickly pushes well offshore and gets 
absorbed by the broader upper low over the Maritimes and North 
Atlantic. A trailing shortwave swings across New England tonight. 
Skies may remain mostly cloudy initially with some clearing 
overnight into early Tuesday morning as the trough axis begins 
pushing east. 

NW-N flow increases tonight as the pressure gradient steepens 
between the departing low pressure and building high pressure to
our west. Gusts 20-30 mph are possible and a few gusts up to 35
mph cannot be ruled out late tonight/early Tuesday morning. 
Cold advection will allow temperatures to bottom out in the 
teens for most spots with the NYC metro falling into the low 
20s. Wind chills by day break will be in the single digits for 
most locations when factoring in the gusty and dry conditions.

&&

.SHORT TERM /TUESDAY NIGHT THROUGH WEDNESDAY/...
Brisk and cold conditions continue Wednesday. High pressure
remains over the central states with broad low pressure over 
the Maritimes/North Atlantic. The pressure gradient will remain 
steep through Wednesday with the strongest winds likely 
occurring on Tuesday. NW wind gusts 35 to 40 mph are expected 
with some isolated gusts around 45 mph. Have held off on an 
Advisory as winds at the top of the boundary layer remain below 
40 kt. Low level flow is a bit weaker Tuesday night into 
Wednesday with gusts 25 to 35 mph. 

Dry conditions are forecast through Wednesday. However, there are
is another shortwave that approaches Tuesday night into 
Wednesday. There is minimal moisture to work with, but a passing
flurry cannot be completely ruled out.

Temperatures, while not record breaking, will run about 10 degrees 
below normal. Highs on Tuesday and Wednesday will be in the upper 
20s to low 30s. Lows Tuesday night range from the mid teens inland 
to the low 20s near the coast. Add the wind component and the region 
likely see wind chills persistently in the single digits at night 
and teens during the daytime.

&&

.LONG TERM /WEDNESDAY NIGHT THROUGH MONDAY/...
Cold air remains across the region through the extended period
with temperatures remaining around 5 to near 10 degrees below 
normal. The extended period will be relatively quiet with the 
exception of a rather quick moving/progressive system for 
Saturday into Saturday night. There is still some uncertainty 
with the track of the low south of the region and will be 
dependent on the amplification with the downstream ridge and 
incoming trough. Much of the guidance remains amplified with the
low tracking south, and the area on the northern periphery of 
the snow. The exception remains the GFS with the trough 
beginning to become negative as the system moves off the 
southeast coast. At this time with the southern and progressive 
track have continued with slight chance probabilities for a 
light snowfall.

&&

.AVIATION /00Z TUESDAY THROUGH SATURDAY/...
Low pressure wave moves well out to sea tonight. Region remains 
between strong low pressure to the east and strong high pressure to 
the west thereafter through the TAF period.

Outside of some snow flurries for NYC terminals early this evening, 
dry conditions are expected. VFR conditions are also expected during 
the TAF period. 

Winds will become quite gusty this evening and increase more 
throughout Tuesday. NW winds near 10-15 kt tonight further increase 
to near 20 kt Tuesday. Gusts up to near 20-25 kt tonight will 
increase to near 30 kt Tuesday and then further increase to near 35 
kt late Tuesday morning into Tuesday afternoon. Some peak gusts to 
near 40 kt Tuesday will be possible.

 ...NY Metro (KEWR/KLGA/KJFK/KTEB) TAF Uncertainty...

Gusts will likely vary a few kts from forecast at times compared
to TAF.

OUTLOOK FOR 00Z WEDNESDAY THROUGH SATURDAY...

Tuesday night: VFR. Gusts near 35 kt early, then subsiding to
25-30 kt late.

Wednesday through Thursday: VFR. NW wind gusts near 30-35kt at 
times.

Friday: VFR. NW wind gusts near 20 kt during the day.

Saturday: Low pressure impacts possible. IFR or lower with 
strong winds and hvy sn/ra possible depending on track and 
intensity.

Detailed information, including hourly TAF wind component forecasts, 
can be found at: https:/www.weather.gov/zny/n90

&&

.MARINE...
No changes to winds and seas tonight.

Brief SCA conditions are anticipated on the waters late tonight
as NW-N flow increases. These winds will quickly become gales 
on Tuesday and will continue through Tuesday night on all 
waters. Have converted the gale watch to a gale warning. The 
warning continues into Wednesday on the ocean waters. There is a
small chance gales continue on the non-ocean waters on 
Wednesday, but at this time there is a higher probability for 
SCA conditions. 

There is also a chance of light freezing spray near shore late
tonight into Tuesday night. 

Gale conditions on the ocean waters east of Fire Island Inlet may be 
continuing into Wednesday evening while the remainder of the 
forecast waters will be near gale force, except New York Harbor 
where SCA conditions will be possible, as low pressure departs to 
the northeast and high pressure builds to the west. With a 
prolonged NW flow SCA conditions will likely continue on the 
forecast waters through Friday, except across New York Harbor 
where conditions will be more marginal. And marginal gale gusts 
will be possible on the ocean waters late Wednesday night into 
Thursday night. Then with high pressure across the region sub 
advisory conditions will be likely Friday night into Saturday 
night.

&&

.HYDROLOGY...
No significant hydrologic issues anticipated through early next
week.

&&

.OKX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CT...None.
NY...None.
NJ...None.
MARINE...Gale Warning from 6 AM Tuesday to 6 AM EST Wednesday for 
     ANZ331-332-335-338-340-345.
     Gale Warning from 6 AM Tuesday to 6 PM EST Wednesday for 
     ANZ350-353-355.

&&

$$

SYNOPSIS...DS/MET
NEAR TERM...DS/MET
SHORT TERM...DS
LONG TERM...MET
AVIATION...JM
MARINE...DS/MET
HYDROLOGY...DS/MET
