249 
FXUS61 KOKX 290610
AFDOKX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service New York NY
210 AM EDT Sat Mar 29 2025

.SYNOPSIS...
A warm front approaches this evening, and pushes north of most 
of the waters Saturday. This front will drop back down south of 
the waters Saturday afternoon into night, and then lift back 
north Sunday Night. A cold frontal passage is likely late 
Monday, followed by high pressure through the middle of the 
week. A frontal system will approach Wednesday night into 
Thursday.

&&

.NEAR TERM /THROUGH TODAY/...
The fcst is on track, with updates to increase the 
probabilities, and sky cover, and temperatures, and dew points
for current conditions. Nearly zonal upper flow across 
US/Canada border, with stationary front extending into the NE US
tonight, lead by a warm frontal approach overnight and passage 
Sat AM for all but SE CT. 

Lead vort energy moves across the region tonight, combined with
strong waa associated with warm frontal passage will continue a
period of showers into first half of tonight. Drying and 
warming conditions overnight for all but SE CT in strengthening
SW flow. 

Early low temps in the mid 40s to lower 50s in pre-frontal
showers, increasing to upper 40s far eastern areas to mid 50s 
for western areas.

&&

.SHORT TERM /TONIGHT THROUGH SUNDAY NIGHT/...
Key Messages...

* Unseasonably warm temperatures (20-25 degrees above normal) for 
  the NYC/NJ metro and surroundings Sat AM into early aft. 

* Elevated threat for brush fire spread for NE NJ into the NYC 
  metro for Saturday due to dry conditions, warm temps, low rhs 
  and gusty winds.

* Strong cold frontal passage likely Sat aft into eve, with
  temps likely dropping 20 degrees in the matter of an hour or
  two. Anyone venturing out on the waters tomorrow should be 
  mindful of the cold water dangers. 

* A return to seasonably chilly conditions Saturday Night into 
  Sunday.
  
Confluent upper flow across the region through Sunday, giving 
way to SW US shortwave lifting into the Mid Mississippi River 
Valley/Great Lakes Sun Night in response to deepening central 
plains polar shortwave. 

At the surface, a stationary front will generally lie across 
Central NY/New England separating a polar airmass across Canada 
and unseasonably warm airmass to the south of the front. Good 
agreement in the warm front moving north of all but SE CT by Sat
AM, with deep WSW flow and deep mixing in its wake. High 
confidence in temps making a run into the lower 80s for NE NJ 
and NYC and upper 70s for surrounding metro areas of LoHud, NW 
LI and SW CT, despite a mix of high and mid clouds streaming 
through the area. Across far northern portions of the local Tri-
State area, closer to the front, will likely be dealing with a 
bit more cloud cover and perhaps some isolated shower/tstm 
activity, while across south coastal areas will have a bit of 
influence off the 50 degree waters, which would limit temps in 
the lower to mid 70s. Meanwhile, temps across far SE CT 
(particularly New London) could struggle to 60 F if warm front 
never passes to the north. 

The unseasonable warmth of 20 to 25 degrees above seasonable 
will be short lived, as strong agreement in the stationary front
working back SW as strong back-door cold front from NE to SW 
late Sat aft/eve with temps likely dropping 20 degrees in an
hour or two on a gusty easterly flow in its wake. This passage 
may also be accompanied by scattered shower activity/isolated 
tsra with a bit of elevated instability, but higher confidence 
in stratus development in the wake of passage for Sat night.

Canadian maritime airmass will likely become entrenched across the 
region Sat Night as back door cold front pushes SW of the region, 
with moist onshore flow under a strong low-level inversion, 
remaining through Sunday. Temps on Sunday with stratus and CAD 
likely struggling into the 50s along the coast to upper 50s well
west of the Hudson R. This is near seasonable, but a good 20-30
degrees below Sat temps.

Good agreement in NE shearing southern shortwave embedded in an 
amplifying SW flow approaches Sun Night, which with a 
developing SW 40-45kt llj should have the back-door front 
working back north across the region as a warm front Sun Night 
into Mon AM. Potential once again for scattered showers, a 
rumble of thunder, and warming temps in WAA flow.

&&

.LONG TERM /MONDAY THROUGH FRIDAY/...
Consistent modeling from the 12Z NAM, GFS and ECMWF puts a cold
front on the doorstep Mon, with the fropa Mon ngt. A sly flow 
with perhaps a slight wwd component will develop ahead of the 
front, as the thermal ridge builds in. Warmest areas along and w
of the Hudson, with progressively cooler temps as you travel 
ewd due to a solid flow from the Atlc. Stratus likely in this 
ern segment, with fog also possible, especially in the mrng. It 
is too far out to get a solid feel for any svr/tstm potential 
with the sys. There should be some scbape as advertised by the 
NAM, but the forcing may be too slow to tap into that Mon 
aftn/eve. There will be good shear, both directional and speed 
to work with, but if everything is elevated, overall impacts 
should be relatively minimal. Nevertheless, did include slight 
chances for tstms with the timing of the best forcing late Mon 
and Mon ngt.

Dry, nly flow on Tue. There is some disagreement with the exact
wind details, as the model consensus has nw flow whereas the 
deterministic GFS has n-ne llvl flow. Went with the consensus 
for now which is more inline with climo and high pres building 
in from the W. 

High pres builds in Tue ngt, so temps should drop into the 20s 
for most of the area if this pattern/timing holds.

The high builds offshore Wed, so still dry but return flow sets
up by the end of the day. The next frontal sys then produces 
some additional chances for shwrs Wed ngt and Thu with a warm 
front/cold front combo. 

There is the suggestion that ridging invof FL and an upr low 
traversing ON/QC could flatten out the flow locally, allowing 
for the front to become parallel to the flow and stall over the 
region for Fri. Clouds and additional chances for shwrs are in 
the fcst as a result, although confidence in this soln is not 
high attm.

&&

.AVIATION /06Z SATURDAY THROUGH WEDNESDAY/...
A frontal boundary will be the focus of the TAF period. The
boundary starts out north of the terminals, and makes its way
farther southwest this afternoon into tonight.

Mainly VFR conditions begin the TAF period with exception of
localized MVFR to IFR into early this morning. Have MVFR at KSWF
and for KGON there is brief potential for IFR. Some rain 
showers are falling as well, and expect these to be intermittent
before 09Z.

Then mainly VFR for today, with that front moving southwest
marking a switch from WSW-SW winds to more E winds. Winds gust 
20-25 kt this afternoon with continued gusts near 20 kt into
early tonight. Some rain showers are possible this afternoon
into tonight with increasing chances for MVFR late this
afternoon into tonight.

Also, LLWS expected this morning, generally 09-16Z with WSW
winds of 45-50 kt at 2kft.

 ...NY Metro (KEWR/KLGA/KJFK/KTEB) TAF Uncertainty... 

Amendments becoming more likely towards end of TAF period to
refine timing of switch of westerly winds to easterly winds as
well as for the timing of the MVFR. Both of these changes could
be a few hours off from TAF.

.OUTLOOK FOR 06Z SUNDAY THROUGH WEDNESDAY...

Late tonight: MVFR to IFR with possible rain showers. Patchy fog
developing late. Intermittent easterly wind gusts 15-20 kt.

Sunday: MVFR to IFR, improving to VFR afternoon. Patchy fog 
early.

Sunday night: MVFR to IFR. Areas of fog developing at night.
Increasing chances for showers, becoming likely for some
terminals. S wind gusts 15-20 kt developing late.

Monday: MVFR to IFR with chance of showers, becoming more 
likely afternoon and at night with a slight chance of thunder. 
Areas of fog early, becoming more patchy late morning into 
afternoon. S-SW wind gusts 20-25kt, becoming NW at night.

Tuesday: VFR. N-NW wind gusts around 20 kt daytime, just for 
some coastal terminals at night.

Wednesday: Mainly VFR but chances for MVFR at night with
increasing chance of showers. E-SE wind gusts 15-20 kt.

Detailed information, including hourly TAF wind component forecasts, 
can be found at: https:/www.weather.gov/zny/n90

&&

.MARINE...
Sub-SCA conditions through tonight on all waters as high pressure 
moves through and then a warm front. 

SW SCA gusts likely for western nearshore waters late Sat AM into 
afternoon. Gusts will likely remain below SCA for the open ocean and 
LIS waters with a stronger inversion, but SCA seas likely on the 
ocean in 15-20kt SW flow late tonight into Sunday. 

A strong backdoor cold front moves from e to w late Sat aft/eve
which would bring a quick wind shift and potential for a brief 
burst of SCA easterly winds in its wake, subsiding below SCA
later Sat Night into Sunday. The elevated ocean seas with SCA 
levels will probably continue through the rest of the weekend, 
especially for eastern ocean zones.

Fog, gales, and a few tstms all possible Mon and Mon ngt as a strong 
cold front approaches then passes thru the waters. Improvement to 
sca on Tue. Winds blw sca lvls on Wed, although seas on the ocean 
may linger close to 5 ft. Winds and seas then ramp up quickly 
again Wed ngt and Thu due to another frontal sys.

&&

.FIRE WEATHER...
The combination of high temperatures in the upper 70s to lower 
80s across NE NJ and NYC metro, southwest winds of 15 to 20 mph
with frequent gusts of 25 to 35 mph, relative humidity values 
of 30 to 35 percent, and lack of wetting rains over that last 4 
days will create an elevated risk for brush fire spread across 
the region Saturday morning into afternoon.

&&

.HYDROLOGY...
Around a tenth of an inch of rain or less with rain showers
tonight into early Saturday. 

Less than a tenths of an inch of rain with shower on Sunday, 
mainly northern areas.

One tenths to a quarter of an inch possible Sunday Night.

Some localized minor flooding, mainly urban and poor drainage, is 
possible Mon and Mon ngt with a frontal sys. No additional 
hydrologic impacts are expected Tue-Fri.

&&

.TIDES/COASTAL FLOODING...
A new moon on Saturday will have astronomical tides rising 
through Sunday night, with as little as 1/2 ft of surge needed 
for minor coastal flooding by Sunday Night high tide. Potential 
that water levels could exceed minor flood levels for the most 
vulnerable south shore of NYC/W LI and western LI sound 
communities in an E/SE flow regime.

&&

.OKX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CT...None.
NY...None.
NJ...None.
MARINE...Small Craft Advisory from 2 PM this afternoon to 2 AM EDT 
     Sunday for ANZ331-332-340.
     Small Craft Advisory from 8 AM this morning to 2 AM EDT Sunday 
     for ANZ335-338-345.
     Small Craft Advisory until 8 PM EDT Sunday for ANZ350-353-355.

&&

$$

SYNOPSIS...JMC/NV
NEAR TERM...JMC/MET/NV
SHORT TERM...NV
LONG TERM...JMC
AVIATION...JM
MARINE...JMC/MET/NV
FIRE WEATHER...
HYDROLOGY...JMC/NV
TIDES/COASTAL FLOODING...
