863 
FXUS61 KOKX 250103
AFDOKX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service New York NY
903 PM EDT Sat May 24 2025

.SYNOPSIS...
Low pressure over the Canadian Maritime remains through Sunday,
then moves east and weakens Sunday night into Monday. High 
pressure builds into the northeast Monday and Monday night 
through Tuesday night. By midweek, high pressure moves offshore 
into the Atlantic with a series of low pressure system moving 
through late in the week.

&&

.NEAR TERM /THROUGH SUNDAY/...
Adjusted POPs with showers with isolated to scattered rain 
showers across the region. Coverage of showers lowers by mid to 
late evening as any lingering instability diminishes.
Temperatures and dewpoints were on track and not modified from
previously forecast.

An upper trough over the northeast, with a closed upper low will 
remain nearly stationary tonight through much of Sunday before 
beginning to shift east and weaken late Sunday afternoon. Spokes of 
energy rotate around the upper low. 

With daytime heating and instability Sunday a few showers will 
be possible once again. With the cyclonic flow continuing into 
Sunday, and a cool airmass over the region, daytime cloudiness 
Sunday will increase, and temperatures will remain below normal.

&&

.SHORT TERM /SUNDAY NIGHT THROUGH MONDAY NIGHT/...
An upper closed low and trough over the northeast begins to move 
eastward as an elongated trough remains over the region. A ridge 
will be approaching to the west late Sunday night and heights will 
begin to rise, and continue rising into Monday night as a broad flat 
ridge builds toward the east coast. Surface high pressure also 
builds toward the area and will be overhead late Monday and 
Monday night. With slowly increasing subsidence not expecting 
any showers to develop Monday. However, there may be a few well 
inland, but not enough to have probabilities. Temperatures 
modify Monday with a little more sunshine likely.

&&

.LONG TERM /TUESDAY THROUGH SATURDAY/...
Upper levels exhibit a ridging pattern Tuesday through the middle of 
next week. At the surface, the center of high pressure will be close 
to the local region Tuesday. The high pressure area builds offshore 
Tuesday night and continues to move farther offshore out into the 
Atlantic Wednesday.

Dry conditions are expected to prevail Tuesday through much of 
Tuesday night. Temperatures are forecast to rebound, reaching more 
into the 70s for more areas on Tuesday with southerly flow and warm 
air advection.

For the middle to late portion of next week, low pressure will be 
approaching at the surface. Aloft, the ridge axis moves across 
Wednesday and then moves east of the region Wednesday night. 
Meanwhile, a strong cutoff low approaches and moves through the 
Great Lakes. The cutoff low transitions to a strong trough and 
approaches the local region Thursday through Friday. One strong 
embedded shortwave moves across early Friday. The overall synoptic 
pattern of trough over the Northeast remains heading into next 
weekend.

At the surface, multiple areas of low pressure approach, one from 
the Great Lakes and one from the mid-Atlantic. Both appear to be 
rather weak in magnitude. For Thursday through Thursday night a 
frontal system approaches the area. Associated cold front passes 
east of the area Friday with another one to follow for next Saturday.

Rain returns to the forecast late Tuesday night for parts of 
Northeast NJ but just a slight chance of rain showers. Chances for 
showers remain in the forecast Wednesday through Saturday. With 
models indicating some weak low level instability Thursday night and 
Friday, also have a slight chance of thunderstorms.

Regarding temperatures, cooler days forecast Wednesday and Thursday 
when there is forecast to be more onshore flow during the day. Range 
of high temperatures forecast mid 60s to lower 70s for those days. 
For Friday and Saturday, the forecast high temperatures those days 
are well into the 70s with more westerly component to the surface 
winds.

&&

.AVIATION /01Z SUNDAY THROUGH THURSDAY/...
Low pressure will continue to slowly track over the Canadian 
Maritimes through Sunday.

VFR. WNW winds settling to around 10 kt or less overnight. Winds WNW-
NW ON Sunday increase to 10-15 kt with gusts around 20 kt.

 ...NY Metro (KEWR/KLGA/KJFK/KTEB) TAF Uncertainty...

No unscheduled amendments expected.

.OUTLOOK FOR 00Z MONDAY THROUGH THURSDAY...

Sunday night: VFR.

Monday-Tuesday: VFR.

Wednesday-Thursday: MVFR possible. Chance of showers.

Detailed information, including hourly TAF wind component forecasts, 
can be found at: https:/www.weather.gov/zny/n90

&&

.MARINE...
Low pressure remains over the Canadian Maritime tonight into 
Sunday, with gusty northwest winds once again during Sunday. 
Conditions are below SCA thresholds this evening and are
expected to remain below SCA thresholds through Sunday. Some 
gusts to 20 kt are still expected.

Gusts Sunday are likely to be below 25 kt. There may be a few 
nearshore gusts near 25 kt, but will not issue a SCA for Sunday.
High pressure then builds toward the waters through Monday 
night. Once wind gusts diminish below 25 kt by early this 
evening, winds and seas will remain below advisory levels on all
the forecast waters through Monday night. Pressure gradient 
remains relatively weak Tuesday through Thursday night, keeping 
below SCA conditions on the forecast waters. Conditions are 
actually forecast to stay well below SCA criteria much of the 
time.

&&

.HYDROLOGY...
No hydrologic impacts expected.

&&

.TIDES/COASTAL FLOODING...
There is potential for localized minor coastal flooding Sunday
into early next week with a new moon occurring Monday evening, 
causing areas to need as little as 1/4 ft of tidal departure for
minor coastal flooding.

The rip current risk for Sunday is moderate as winds and seas 
gradually subside. There will still be a residual easterly
swell around 1-2 ft with period of around 8 sec. Ocean seas
will have a general downward trend during the day.

Rip current risk reduces to low for Memorial Day, as swells 
continue to subside.

&&

.OKX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CT...None.
NY...None.
NJ...None.
MARINE...None.

&&

$$

SYNOPSIS...JM/MET
NEAR TERM...MET
SHORT TERM...MET
LONG TERM...JM
AVIATION...JC
MARINE...JM/MET
HYDROLOGY...JM/MET
TIDES/COASTAL FLOODING...
