883 
FXUS61 KOKX 300317
AFDOKX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service New York NY
1017 PM EST Wed Jan 29 2025

.SYNOPSIS...
High pressure briefly builds in tonight and moves offshore 
Thursday. A frontal system impacts the area late Thursday night 
and Friday, followed by high pressure Saturday into Sunday. The 
high pressure gives way to a weaker frontal system Sunday night 
into Monday. High pressure may return next Tuesday.

&&

.NEAR TERM /UNTIL 6 AM THURSDAY MORNING/...
Some lingering flurries moving across southeastern CT and the
Twin Forks of Long Island, so added a slight chance of POPs to
the forecast through 06Z, though they will likely end earlier
than this. Temperatures were somewhat higher than forecast,
likely because winds are keeping temperatures up. Otherwise,
forecast is on track. However, winds have diminished enough to
allow the Wind Advisory to expire, though there may be isolated
gusts that reach advisory criteria over the next hour or so.

Heights rise as ridging builds into the region tonight, and 
winds and gusts will be diminishing late. Temperatures should 
fall into the teens inland and the lower 20s closer to the 
coast.

&&

.SHORT TERM /6 AM THURSDAY MORNING THROUGH THURSDAY NIGHT/...
Surface high pressure moves across the region Thursday, as upper
ridging also crosses the area and moves offshore late Thursday
afternoon. With the high generally to the south the will be no
cold air damming or a blocking high to the north. Also, with 
the approach of the next frontal system Thursday night, and 
mainly toward Friday morning, a deep southerly flow will be 
developing as warm air moves in aloft. Soundings are indicting a
rather shallow surface cold layer across the interior, and 
especially the valleys. With the onset toward Friday morning, 
rain is expected across most of the southwestern section, with 
the possibility of light freezing rain inland. Light ice 
accumulations are expected.

&&

.LONG TERM /FRIDAY THROUGH WEDNESDAY/...
Unsettled weather will occur on Friday as low pressure and
its associated frontal system impacts the region. The modeling 
has largely been consistent with the evolution of the system 
over the last few days with slight adjustments to the track of 
the low. The pattern continues to support a liquid event as 
there is no arctic air source to advect cold and dry air 
southward. The only concern for any frozen precip will be at the
onset of the event early Friday morning across the interior. 
Surface temperatures will be slower to rise above freezing with 
potential for a period of light freezing rain. The parent low 
passing over or just N of the area support surface winds 
increasing out of the SW, helping to warm temperatures above 
freezing. It may take until mid morning for some of the valley 
locations to fully rise above freezing, but overall the Friday 
event will be a cold rain. Ice accretion of a few hundredths is 
possible across the interior and a winter weather advisory may 
be needed for Friday morning if current trends hold.

The cold rain will persist into the evening before tapering off
from west to east the first half of the night. Liquid 
equivalent amounts total around three tenths inland to just 
under an inch out east. High temperatures on Friday may be 
reached late in the day once the low moves across the area, 
generally in the lower to middle 40s. Colder air will return 
behind the system Friday night, but middle level drying will 
likely prevent any wrap around precip. Lows by early Saturday 
range from the 20s to low 30s. 

The model guidance continues to be in agreement on the overall 
synoptic flow pattern this weekend into next week. The flow will
be zonal with mainly flat shortwaves potentially passing 
through from time to time. Surface high pressure will move over 
New England on Saturday before retreating east on Sunday. A weak
frontal system moves through Sunday night into Monday. Precip 
chances appear low Sunday night into Monday with any notable 
trend on the models shifting the parent north the last several 
cycles. This may lead to chance of light rain at the coast and 
some light snow inland Sunday as the associated warm front lifts
through the area. PoPs have been capped off at chance given the
weak system and continued uncertainty with timing, track, and 
amplitude. Brief high pressure follows on Tuesday before 
potential of another fast moving system mid week.

Temperatures will largely be near normal with the only exception
of Monday where temperatures should be above seasonable levels.

&&

.AVIATION /03Z THURSDAY THROUGH MONDAY/...
Low pressure will track northeast tonight across the Canadian 
Maritimes with high pressure building in from the southwest.

VFR. NW winds 20-25 kt G30-35 kt will gradually diminish 
overnight to around 15 to 20 kt sustained with gusts 20 to 25 kt
by daybreak. Isolated gusts may continue to around 20 kt 
through about 14Z Thursday at some terminals.

     NY Metro (KEWR/KLGA/KJFK/KTEB) TAF Uncertainty...

Amendments possible due to uncertainty in wind speeds. 

.OUTLOOK FOR 00Z FRIDAY THROUGH MONDAY...

Thursday Night: Chance of MVFR or lower in rain late at night, 
possibly starting as freezing rain at KSWF.

Friday: Any freezing rain at KSWF in the morning changing to rain 
with MVFR or lower, possibly ending as light snow at KSWF after 
midnight. SW winds G20kt NYC metro/coast.

Saturday: Becoming VFR in the morning. NW winds G20kt until around 
midday.

Sunday: Chance MVFR or lower conditions mainly at night, with snow 
changing to a wintry mix or rain. 

Monday: VFR. SW winds G15-20kt. 

Detailed information, including hourly TAF wind component forecasts, 
can be found at: https:/www.weather.gov/zny/n90

&&

.MARINE...
A Gale Warning remains in effect for all the forecast waters
into late tonight. With high pressure building to the west, and
a cold front moving to the south and east winds and gusts will
be diminishing. However, gale gusts will likely remain on the
ocean waters east of Fire Island Inlet until toward Thursday
morning, and the Gale warning was extended. There may be a brief
period of SCA gusts on the waters before falling below 25kt, and
an advisory may be issued. Small Craft seas likely remain on 
the ocean waters into Thursday morning, so a SCA will be more 
likely for the ocean waters once gales end. There may be a 
brief break in SCA conditions on the ocean waters before gusts 
increase once again by late Thursday night as another frontal 
system begins to impact the waters.

SCA conditions are likely Friday and Saturday on the ocean. 
Elevated seas may persist on the ocean east of Moriches Inlet 
Saturday night with conditions below SCA levels on Sunday. 
Marginal SCA conditions are possible on Monday, mainly east of 
Moriches Inlet.

&&

.HYDROLOGY...
There are no hydrologic concerns through the middle of next 
week.

&&

.OKX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CT...None.
NY...None.
NJ...None.
MARINE...Gale Warning until 1 AM EST Thursday for ANZ331-332-335-338-
     340-345-355.
     Gale Warning until 5 AM EST Thursday for ANZ350-353.

&&

$$

SYNOPSIS...DS/MET
NEAR TERM...JP/DS/MET
SHORT TERM...MET
LONG TERM...DS
AVIATION...JP
MARINE...DS/MET
HYDROLOGY...DS/MET
