712 
FXUS61 KOKX 300128
AFDOKX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service New York NY
928 PM EDT Tue Apr 29 2025

.SYNOPSIS...
A cold front moves through late tonight into early Wednesday 
morning. High pressure builds Wednesday and settles over the area 
Wednesday night into Thursday. A warm front approaches Thursday 
night and lifts through the region on Friday, with an attendant
cold front following during Saturday. Thereafter, high pressure
attempts to build in from the west into early next week.

&&

.NEAR TERM /THROUGH WEDNESDAY/...
Upstream convection tracking across upstate NY and eastern PA
will continue to dissipate while approaching the area. The 
airmass over the region is much drier and more stable. Latest 
CAMs continue to show what is left of this activity skirting 
northern portions of the Lower Hudson Valley between 10 pm and 
midnight. It is seeming less likely for any thunderstorms and 
will more likely be showers for what makes it.

The cold front is forecast to track through the area from about 
08 to 12z (4am to 8 am) from west to east. A subtle wind shift 
to the west should occur just ahead of the boundary, with a more
noticeable wind shift to the NW Wednesday morning. A mild night
overall is expected due to the late arrival of the front and 
some cloud cover. Lows will average above normal with mainly 
50s, and near 60 across the metro.

On Wednesday noticeably drier air rushes in immediately behind the 
cold front on a NW wind. Expect plenty of sunshine and NW winds in 
the 10 to 15, 10 to 20 mph range throughout the morning with gusts 
around 25 mph, perhaps briefly to 30 mph until mid day or 
shortly thereafter. For more on the dry conditions see the Fire
Wx. section. Then later in the afternoon the winds diminish as 
high pressure continues to draw closer and the pressure gradient
begins to weaken. On a NW wind this time of year it usually 
means above normal temperatures as the winds will downslope 
across the interior. Most spots should get to around 70, with 
some middle 70s across the more metropolitan areas by the 
afternoon. Thus, temperatures should get a good 5 to 8 degrees 
above normal in most places.

&&

.SHORT TERM /WEDNESDAY NIGHT THROUGH THURSDAY/...
With a dry cP air mass settling directly over the area Wednesday 
night temperatures should cool quite a bit, more so across the non-
urban locations. With mostly clear to partly cloudy conditions 
temperatures should cool primarily into the 40s, with lower 50s 
across the metro which is right around normal for this time of year.

High pressure begins to get further east during the day Thursday. 
Light and variable winds during the morning become more onshore out 
of the SE towards late morning and afternoon. Temperatures should 
reach their max by the start of the afternoon, especially further 
east. Then temperatures should trail off across coastal sections 
more so during the afternoon as the onshore flow gets established. 
Temperatures should max out around 70 well inland, but lower half of 
the 60s and upper 50s further east.

&&

.LONG TERM /THURSDAY NIGHT THROUGH TUESDAY/...
The long term period starts off Thursday night with low pressure 
moving across the Great Lakes region along with an upper level 
trough approaching the region. Its associated cold front will 
approach from the south and west, reaching portions of the 
forecast area Friday morning. Expect some chance POPs Thursday 
night into early Friday morning as moisture increase along with 
some lift associated with the front. Generally looking at just 
some light rain showers, however can not rule out an isolated 
rumble of thunder. 

There should be a brief break in the precip Friday morning, however 
chances increase once again Friday afternoon into Saturday as the 
upper trough and cold front approach and move over the region. This 
should bring a better chance of showers, along with a chance of 
thunder for much of the region. Some of the forecast guidance is 
also showing the potential for a frontal wave of low pressure 
developing along the boundary as it moves east, producing additional 
rainfall into the late weekend.  QPF outside any thunder should 
largely remain under an inch, though the slower progression of the 
entire system could enhance totals just a bit further.

There continues to be considerable uncertainty in the forecast from 
late weekend into early next week with whether or not the associated 
upper low is able able to push east or get cut off from the flow and 
meander nearby for several days. Will continue to keep at least 
chance POPs in the forecast for now through much of the extended, 
however it will be possible that part of next week will be dry. 

Friday will be the warmest day in the long term with highs in the 
upper 70s and middle 80s away from the maritime influence. Closer to 
the coast, highs will only be in the upper 60s and lower 70s. With 
unsettled conditions possible, expect high temperatures to be in the 
60s and lower 70s for the remainder of the long term.

&&

.AVIATION /01Z WEDNESDAY THROUGH SUNDAY/...
An approaching cold front will pass through the area from
approximately 4 to 8 am. 

VFR for the most part, though there is a chance that a 
weakening line of showers/thunderstorms ahead of the front may 
make it as far east as KSWF with MVFR cond and brief gusty 
winds. However, thunderstorms are seeming less likely as they 
work into a more stable airmass across the area. 

S/SW winds at 10-15 kt G20-25kt, strongest along the coast, 
will gradually veer and diminish ahead of the approaching cold 
front, shifting to the W-NW by daybreak Wednesday. Expect gusts
around 20kt to carry into the afternoon, although vertical wind
profiles do begin to weaken. However, we are often more efficient
with deeper mixing and stronger winds in W/NW flow, especially 
of late.

 ...NY Metro (KEWR/KLGA/KJFK/KTEB) TAF Uncertainty...

Gusts become more occasional overnight.

Wind shift with the cold front and onset of strengthening NW 
flow may vary by 1-2 hours. 

.OUTLOOK FOR 00Z THURSDAY THROUGH SUNDAY...

Wednesday night and Thursday: VFR. 

Thursday night: Chance of showers after midnight with MVFR cond
possible. 

Friday: Chance showers/tstms with MVFR or lower cond from mid
afternoon into the night. S winds G20kt at the NYC metros and
along the coast. 

Saturday: Showers likely and possibly a tstm with MVFR or lower
cond expected. 

Sunday: Chance of showers with MVFR cond likely. 

Detailed information, including hourly TAF wind component
forecasts, can be found at: https:/www.weather.gov/zny/n90

&&

.MARINE...
SCA conditions across all waters tonight in a S/SW flow ahead of
an approaching cold front. The front then passes through in the 
morning with gusts still above 25 kt and elevated seas on the 
ocean. SCA will linger for a time on the ocean Wednesday for 
marginal conditions. A period of sub-advisory conditions then 
follows for all waters for much of Weds afternoon through 
Thursday night as a high pressure ridge shifts through the 
region.

Strengthening southerly flow associated with an approaching frontal 
system could introduce a period of SCA conditions on the ocean 
beginning Friday, with wind gusts up to 25 kt and seas 5 to 6 ft. 
Winds lighten Friday night, but elevated seas may linger into the 
weekend.

&&

.FIRE WEATHER...
A wetting rain is unlikely for the vast majority of the area 
tonight, despite the fact that a cold front swings through early
in the morning. Behind the front NW winds pick up and will 
likely gust to around 25 mph at times throughout the morning. 
The winds are then likely to decrease during the afternoon. 
Minimum RH levels are expected to be 20 to 30 percent resulting 
in another elevated risk of fire spread. Special Weather 
Statements have been collaborated with state agencies and will 
be issued for all of our NY, NJ, and CT zones on Wednesday.

&&

.HYDROLOGY...
There are no hydrologic concerns through the forecast period.

&&

.TIDES/COASTAL FLOODING...
Astronomically high tides coupled with a S/SW flow allows water
levels to approach minor coastal flood thresholds in the most 
vulnerable locales of coastal Nassau, Queens, and Fairfield, CT 
during this evening's high tide cycle. No headlines have been 
issued as the expectation is for water levels to fall just 
short of coastal flood benchmarks.

&&

.OKX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CT...None.
NY...None.
NJ...None.
MARINE...Small Craft Advisory until 6 AM EDT Wednesday for ANZ331-332-
     340-345.
     Small Craft Advisory until 2 AM EDT Wednesday for ANZ335-338.
     Small Craft Advisory until 2 PM EDT Wednesday for ANZ350-353.
     Small Craft Advisory until 11 AM EDT Wednesday for ANZ355.

&&

$$

SYNOPSIS...BC/JE/DW
NEAR TERM...BC/JE/DW
SHORT TERM...JE
LONG TERM...BC
AVIATION...DW
MARINE...BC/JE/DW
FIRE WEATHER...
HYDROLOGY...BC/JE
TIDES/COASTAL FLOODING...
