397 
FXUS61 KOKX 110839
AFDOKX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service New York NY
339 AM EST Sat Jan 11 2025

.SYNOPSIS...
Low pressure passes well south and east through this afternoon.
High pressure then builds in tonight and settles over the area
on Sunday before weakening on Monday. A pair of cold fronts 
will move across the area Monday night through the middle of the
week. High pressure builds in Thursday into Friday.

&&

.NEAR TERM /THROUGH TONIGHT/...
A brief period of light snow will occur early this morning in 
response to some PVA/lift in the middle levels ahead of
southern stream shortwave energy pushing across the Middle 
Atlantic. At the same time, a northern stream shortwave dives 
southeastward towards the area. These systems do not phase until
the associated low pressure over the Carolinas is well south 
and east of our area late this morning and afternoon. 

Radar returns are increasing, but lingering dry air needs to be 
overcome initially. Observations of light snow have made it as
close as KSMQ and KBLM or just south and west of the NYC metro.  
Thinking snow should begin reaching the surface from the city 
on north and west within the next hour and then 4-6am 
elsewhere. Latest trends continue to indicate the area of light 
snow will be fast moving and likely diminish in coverage after 
7-8am as the mid level lift weakens. Most of the area should be 
dry by around 9-10am with just a few lingering flurries through 
midday.

Will keep the likely PoPs early this morning as there is still a 
high probability of measurable precip in the form of light snow.
Do not think snow to liquid ratios will be much higher than 
10:1-11:1 given overall poor snow growth due to the weak lift. 
Snowfall accumulations look to be about a coating to under a 
half inch. A few spots could maybe see a few tenths higher, but 
not anticipating any inch reports. Liquid equivalents look to 
only be a few hundredths. Temperatures during the light snow 
look to be in the upper 20s and to around 30 degrees.

Dry conditions prevail this afternoon, but it will likely
remain mostly cloudy as the northern stream trough and energy 
swing across the area. Temperatures should rise into the low and
middle 30s for highs. Northwest winds will also increase with 
gusts to around 20 mph possible late in the day. 

The region will then lie between the departing low offshore and
high pressure building in the from the south and west. A breezy
northwest wind will continue for much of the area with the most
frequent gusts, 20-25 mph, closer to the coast. Low 
temperatures fall into the lower and middle 20s for most spots 
and the upper 20s in the NYC metro.

&&

.SHORT TERM /SUNDAY THROUGH MONDAY NIGHT/...
High pressure will be in control both at the surface and aloft 
Sunday into Sunday night as an upper ridge settles over the
region. This will allow for dry conditions, weak winds and 
temperatures to at or just above normal. Highs will be in the 
upper 30s to around 40 degrees. Lows on Sunday night will be 
near normal in the in the 20s for most spots and around 30 in 
the NYC metro. 

The ridge axis moves offshore on Monday with the surface high 
pressure weakening over the area. A closed upper low will swing 
across the Great Lakes late in the day into Monday night. This
will send a cold front across the area. Based on the latest 
global model and ensemble consensus, the front should be moving 
through or just east of the area late Monday night into early 
Tuesday morning. A nearly zonal flow aloft will prevent moisture
return so other than a slight increase in clouds the front will
move through dry. Cold advection kicks in behind the front with
temperatures and dew points starting to fall by day break 
Tuesday. Westerly winds will also shift to the northwest and 
start increasing by day break as well.

&&

.LONG TERM /TUESDAY THROUGH FRIDAY/...
Key Point(s)

* Dry and seasonably cold weather prevails.

The basic premise of a Western CONUS ridge and Eastern CONUS
trough continues into the long term period. There may be some 
transient upper level ridging into the Eastern seaboard and our 
region towards the tail end of the period as NWP consensus 
attempts to pull the upper level trough back a bit further west 
towards the start of next weekend. Essentially a dry and cold 
period with reinforcements of cP air arriving from the Canadian 
prairies. The mid week period will be the coldest in the 
extended as day time temperatures will struggle to get to 
freezing at the coast for a multi-day period, which will likely 
be Wednesday and Thursday. Wednesday will likely be the coldest 
day of the period, especially when you factor in the wind as the
500 mb upper low and vort max swings through late Tue and in 
its wake the pressure gradient is likely to be strongest into 
the day Wednesday. Wednesday's wind chills may not get out of 
the teens. Otherwise predominantly dry with sub chance PoPs 
through at least the start of next weekend.

&&

.AVIATION /09Z SATURDAY THROUGH WEDNESDAY/...
A weak surface trough extending north of low pressure down to our 
south will pass through the area this morning. The developing low 
moves offshore down to the south this morning and passes well east 
of the area this afternoon. 

Light snow with MVFR prevails for a few hours early this morning. 
Essentially no accumulation is expected. VFR conditions return by 
late morning and early afternoon. VFR conditions may return an hour 
or two earlier than what is reflected in TAFs.

The winds will be light and variable through the early morning. The 
winds become NW towards late morning into the afternoon with gusts 
up to 20 kt very late in the day and for the evening. Gusts likely 
continue into the first half of the night before diminishing after 
06-09Z.

 ...NY Metro (KEWR/KLGA/KJFK/KTEB) TAF Uncertainty...

VFR conditions may return 1 to 2 hours earlier than what is 
reflected in TAFs.

OUTLOOK FOR 06Z SUNDAY THROUGH WEDNESDAY...

Saturday night: VFR. NW gusts 20 kt, gusts ending late.

Sunday-Monday: VFR.

Tuesday-Wednesday: VFR. NW wind gusts 20-30 kt.

Detailed information, including hourly TAF wind component forecasts, 
can be found at: https:/www.weather.gov/zny/n90

&&

.MARINE...
Mostly tranquil conditions on the waters this morning other
than some light snow. Winds will begin to increase this 
afternoon with winds reaching 25-30 kt on the ocean this evening
into tonight. Winds likely average around 20 kt on the non-
ocean waters, but there is chance for 25 kt gusts on the eastern
Sound as well. Will mention occasional 25 kt gusts for these 
waters. Winds weaken on Sunday and will remain below SCA levels 
through Monday. Marginal SCA winds are possible on the ocean by 
late Monday night.

Small craft conditions are likely to develop during Tuesday and 
continue through Wednesday and possibly into Wednesday night before 
subsiding towards Thursday morning. A period of gales is possible, 
especially out on the ocean waters Tuesday night into a portion of 
Wednesday.

&&

.HYDROLOGY...
There are no hydrologic concerns through next week.

&&

.OKX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CT...None.
NY...None.
NJ...None.
MARINE...Small Craft Advisory from 6 PM this evening to 6 AM EST Sunday 
     for ANZ350-353-355.

&&

$$

SYNOPSIS...JE/DS
NEAR TERM...DS
SHORT TERM...DS
LONG TERM...JE
AVIATION...JE
MARINE...JE/DS
HYDROLOGY...JE/DS
