376 
FXUS61 KOKX 091514
AFDOKX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service New York NY
1014 AM EST Sun Feb 9 2025

.SYNOPSIS...
Offshore low pressure exits the region as it tracks further east 
into the Atlantic. Behind it, high pressure builds in from the west 
through Monday night. A series of lows will impact the area Tuesday 
through Thursday. High pressure returns to end the week and start 
the weekend.

&&

.NEAR TERM /UNTIL 6 PM THIS EVENING/...
Low pressure off Cape Cod will continue exiting farther out in 
the Atlantic today, bringing an end to this winter storm.

Lingering light snow showers may continue to fall into late 
morning, mainly in parts of eastern Long Island and southeastern
Connecticut, but little additional accumulation is expected.
This activity dissipates entirely by afternoon, then drying 
conditions with high pressure building in.

The flow strengthens behind the system as the high slides east 
thru the Midwest, allowing blustery conditions to develop moving
thru this morning. NW winds gust 25 to 30 mph into late 
afternoon before subsiding. Temperatures will climb above the 
freezing mark across the local area, so expect some snowmelt 
with sunshine breaking out by mid afternoon.

&&

.SHORT TERM /6 PM THIS EVENING THROUGH MONDAY NIGHT/...
High pressure will be building into the region tonight and be 
over the area Monday night. Lows tonight will be near seasonal
normals. Temperatures Monday and Monday night will be nearly 5
degrees below normal as skies clear and winds become light,
allowing for radiational cooling.

&&

.LONG TERM /TUESDAY THROUGH SATURDAY/...
Zonal flow aloft for Tuesday and Tuesday night will help keep a
weak area of low pressure to our south as it develops near the 
Mid- Atlantic coast and heads east into the western Atlantic. 
The right- entrance region of a strong upper jet streak will be 
over us and allow for expansion of the low's precip shield into 
the forecast area. Light snow likely Tuesday night for approx 
the southern two-thirds of the forecast area with a 50% chance 
of snow for the northernmost zones. Snow accumulations would be 
up to an inch.

Surface high pressure builds to our northeast during Wednesday 
with upper confluence. Thinking is that surface ridging over 
here will be strong enough to hold off any precipitation through
the daytime hours and this is supported by model qpf field 
trends, but decided to leave in a slight chance of snow for some
areas. Precip is then expected Wednesday night and Thursday 
with a familiar pattern of primary low pressure passing to our 
NW while a weaker secondary low shifts through the forecast 
area. This would send an elevated warm nose through, changing 
snow to a wintry mix Wednesday night before an eventual 
changeover to rain on Thursday as enough warm air pushes in. 
Right now it appears that snow/sleet accumulations would be on 
the light side before the changeover to rain. Can't rule out a 
little freezing rain well NW of the city either.

Colder air filters back in from the NW Thursday night as high 
pressure builds back in behind the departing storm with 
lingering rain showers at the coast and snow showers or mixed 
rain/snow showers inland. Dry weather then expected for Friday 
and Friday night with high pressure in control. Another storm 
may then bring a wintry mix to the area by the end of Saturday.

&&

.AVIATION /15Z SUNDAY THROUGH THURSDAY/...
Low pressure southeast of the area tracks northeast today with 
high pressure building in from the west. High pressure will
build more into the region later this afternoon and through
tonight.

Precipitation has ended but MVFR to localized IFR stratus 
ceilings remain late this morning into the start of the 
afternoon. VFR expected to return by early to mid afternoon as 
the lower stratus scatters out.

Winds eventually becoming NW by late morning into afternoon with
speeds increasing 10-15G20-25kt. Winds diminish this evening as
high pressure builds in from the west. 

 ...NY Metro (KEWR/KLGA/KJFK/KTEB) TAF Uncertainty... 

Amendments likely for timing of VFR return.

.OUTLOOK FOR 12Z MONDAY THROUGH THURSDAY... 

Monday: VFR.

Tuesday: Chance of snow in the afternoon/night, mainly at the 
coastal terminals. IFR/LIFR conditions possible.

Wednesday: Slight chance of light snow/MVFR or lower conditions
at the coastal terminals early.

Thursday: MVFR/IFR in a wintry mix to rain.

Detailed information, including hourly TAF wind component forecasts, 
can be found at: https:/www.weather.gov/zny/n90

&&

.MARINE...
Increasing northwest flow today allows gusts 25 to 30 kt to
develop on the ocean waters this morning behind deepening 
offshore low pressure. Occasional 25 kt gusts on the non ocean
waters.

Small Craft Advisory is in effect for the ocean waters 
starting at 11 AM, and ending west to east this evening and 
into the overnight as high pressure builds in from the west, and
winds diminish. With the high in control through Monday night 
winds and seas remain below advisory levels. And, with a weak 
pressure gradient continuing Tuesday into Wednesday sub SCA 
conditions continue. An onshore flow then increases Wednesday 
night into Thursday morning with the approach of low pressure 
approaching from the south and west. Advisory-level gusts 
anticipated on all waters during this period with even a chance 
of a gust or two approaching gale force for a brief period on 
the ocean waters. Winds then shift offshore Thursday afternoon 
after a brief lull before increasing once again Thursday night 
with SCA conditions probable on all waters.

&&

.HYDROLOGY...
There are no hydrologic concerns through the forecast period.

&&

.OKX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CT...None.
NY...None.
NJ...None.
MARINE...Small Craft Advisory until 1 AM EST Monday for ANZ350-353.
     Small Craft Advisory until 9 PM EST this evening for ANZ355.

&&

$$

SYNOPSIS...MET
NEAR TERM...DR/MET/MW
SHORT TERM...MET
LONG TERM...
AVIATION...BC/JM
MARINE...MET
HYDROLOGY...MET
