292 
FXUS61 KOKX 080532
AFDOKX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service New York NY
1232 AM EST Sat Feb 8 2025

.SYNOPSIS...
High pressure will build from the west through Saturday morning.
Low pressure will then approach from the Ohio Valley later
Saturday, with a secondary low taking shape south of Long 
Island Saturday night. The low will depart to the east Sunday
morning, followed by building high pressure from the west later
Sunday into Monday. A series of lowS may impact the area Tuesday
through Thursday.

&&

.NEAR TERM /UNTIL 6 AM THIS MORNING/...
Still only minor changes to trend from 02Z obs. Skies should
remain mostly clear through the night. 

The passage of a northern branch shortwave trough and deepening
low pressure over the Canadian Maritimes will continue to allow
colder air to filter into the area tonight on NW winds. Gusts
have abated as sfc high pressure builds east from the Ohio 
Valley. Expect a mainly clear night with some high clouds 
filtering in from the west toward daybreak. Lows will range from
the upper teens inland to the lower/mid 20s at the coast. This 
is right around normal.

&&

.SHORT TERM /6 AM THIS MORNING THROUGH 6 PM SUNDAY/...
There is good model agreement in taking a southern branch low
over the Mid Mississippi Valley east on Saturday and into the 
Ohio Valley by late afternoon/early evening. As the upper 
forcing approaches the coast Saturday night, a secondary low 
takes shape south of Long Island, passing to the south and east 
overnight. How quickly this secondary low takes shape will be 
critical into how strong of an elevated warm layer gets into the
area ahead of the weakening primary low to the west. There 
seems to be good agreement with a warm nose pushing into the 
NYC/NE metro, southern portions of the Lower Hudson Valley, and 
western Long Island around 10 PM - Midnight. Beyond that, the 
warm air may not get too much farther north and east as the 
coastal low takes shape to the south and SE winds back around to
the E/NE and mid level cool. While this is a close call with 
the precipitation likely transitioning to a mix closer to the 
coast, strong thermal forcing and frontogenetic forcing will 
provide a quick front end dump of snow for most locations with 
snowfall rates an inch plus for about a 2-3 hour period. Most 
of this occurs from Saturday evening into early Sunday morning 
with a transition to a lighter precipitation mixed with sleet, 
freezing drizzle, and possibly plain rain at the coast (Long 
Island and NYC). Light precipitation will then linger into 
Sunday morning with little additional snowfall and/or ice 
accretion. Any icing looks light, perhaps a glaze on top of the 
already fallen snow.

Snowfall totals of 3-5 inches are expected across Long Island 
and the NYC/NJ metro, where a winter weather advisory is in 
effect. Across interior NE NJ, the Lower Hudson Valley, and 
southern CT, expect 5-7 inches with a Winter Storm Warning in 
effect. Winds through the event are expected to be under 10 mph,
so blowing and drifting unlikely. 

Temperatures on Saturday get up into the lower/mid 30s, then 
fall into the upper 20s/lower 30s in the evening with the onset
of snow, fluctuating little overnight.

&&

.LONG TERM /SUNDAY NIGHT THROUGH FRIDAY/...
Key Points:

* Increased confidence for accumulating snow late Tuesday night
  into early Wednesday.

* Uncertainty remains high for accumulating snow Wednesday  
  through Thursday as additional low pressure systems possibly 
  impact the area. 

* Daytime high temperatures will be below normal for much of the 
  week, with the exception of Thursday, with near normal 
  overnight low temperatures.

The fast and nearly zonal flow aloft will continue Sunday through 
Wednesday with a more amplified trough approaching the east coast 
Thursday and passing through Thursday night. High pressure briefly 
build into the area late Sunday through late Monday. With another 
high likely building to the north late Tuesday through Wednesday 
cold air will remain in place. And with a couple of lows passing to 
the south precipitation with these lows late Tuesday into Wednesday 
will be all snow across the region. The track of the lows are a 
little uncertain and will be determined with the strength of the 
high to the north. There is increased confidence for an 
accumulating snow late Tuesday into Wednesday, however, amounts 
are uncertain with the track of the low, and have trended lower.

There may be a brief break in the precipitation later Wednesday into 
Wednesday evening, however with the uncertainty with the timing of 
the lows will maintain at least chance probabilities.
With the next low pressure system quickly approaching late 
Wednesday, and being more amplified and a deeper surface low, chances 
remain high for additional snow accumulations at least across the 
inland areas. There will be increased moisture with this system as 
the low takes a southerly track and Gulf moisture entrains. With the 
inland system and a strong southerly flow with strong warm air 
advection, frozen precipitation will likely transition to rain along 
the coast, and mixed precipitation inland. And with the warm 
advection temperatures Thursday may be near to above normal. High 
pressure and upper ridging build behind the low to end next week.

&&

.AVIATION /06Z SATURDAY THROUGH WEDNESDAY/...
High pressure building toward the terminals through tonight will 
pass east Saturday afternoon. As low pressure moves through the Ohio 
Valley, a leading warm front will approach in the evening while a 
secondary low develops south of Long Island. 

VFR to start, then light snow should start to arrive at the NYC 
metros/KISP after 23Z-24Z with vsby quickly lowering to MVFR then 
IFR/LIFR. Precip should then mix with or change to sleet there after 
03Z-04Z. Snow arrives at the Hudson Valley/CT terminals a couple of 
hours later during the evening, with flight cat also lowering quickly 
to IFR/LIFR. 

NW winds 10 kt or less should diminish somewhat, then become
SE-S in the afternoon, and SE-E at night . 

 ...NY Metro (KEWR/KLGA/KJFK/KTEB) TAF Uncertainty... 

No unscheduled AMD expected. 

.OUTLOOK FOR 06Z SUNDAY THROUGH WEDNESDAY... 

Late tonight: IFR/LIFR cond expected. Sleet/snow should transition 
to freezing rain/sleet at the NYC metros/KISP and then to freezing 
drizzle late. Precip at KSWF/KHPN/KBDR/KGON should be mostly snow, 
with a brief period of sleet possible, tapering off to either light 
snow or freezing drizzle late. 

Sunday: MVFR early, becoming VFR by noon. NW winds G20-25kt.

Monday: VFR.

Tuesday: Chance of snow in the afternoon, becoming likely at
night. IFR/LIFR conditions possible especially at night. 

Wednesday: Chance of light snow/MVFR or lower cond. 

Detailed information, including hourly TAF wind component
forecasts, can be found at: https:/www.weather.gov/zny/n90

&&

.MARINE...
SCA remains in effect from Fire Island to Moriches Inlet til 1
AM, and E of there to Montauk Point til 4 AM. Seas are gradually
subsiding from W to E. 

Winds and seas should remain below SCA daytime Sat into Sat
night until low pressure deepens east of the area on Sunday. 

A strong/gusty northwest flow develops behind the departing 
low, with small craft seas likely on the ocean waters with 
marginal advisory gusts. Winds diminish Sunday night with 
building high pressure, however, ocean seas will remain elevated
until late Sunday night. With a weak pressure gradient force 
Tuesday into Wednesday winds and seas remain below advisory 
across all the forecast waters. Then with an increasing 
northeast flow with low pressure impacting the waters Wednesday 
night marginal SCA conditions will be possible across the ocean 
waters.

&&

.HYDROLOGY...
There are no hydrologic concerns through the forecast period.

&&

.OKX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CT...Winter Storm Warning from 5 PM this afternoon to 11 AM EST 
     Sunday for CTZ005>012.
NY...Winter Storm Warning from 5 PM this afternoon to 11 AM EST 
     Sunday for NYZ067>070.
     Winter Weather Advisory from 5 PM this afternoon to 11 AM EST 
     Sunday for NYZ071>075-078>081-176>179.
NJ...Winter Storm Warning from 5 PM this afternoon to 11 AM EST 
     Sunday for NJZ002-103.
     Winter Weather Advisory from 5 PM this afternoon to 11 AM EST 
     Sunday for NJZ004-006-104>108.
MARINE...Small Craft Advisory until 4 AM EST early this morning for 
     ANZ350.
     Small Craft Advisory until 1 AM EST early this morning for 
     ANZ353.

&&

$$

SYNOPSIS...BG/MET/DW
NEAR TERM...BG/MET/DW
SHORT TERM...DW
LONG TERM...MET
AVIATION...BG
MARINE...BG/MET/DW
HYDROLOGY...MET/DW
