751 
FXUS61 KOKX 210811
AFDOKX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service New York NY
411 AM EDT Fri Mar 21 2025

.SYNOPSIS...
A cold front with developing low pressure passes east early 
this morning. A high pressure ridge will briefly slide in for 
tonight. Another cold front will approach Saturday and move 
through Saturday evening. High pressure will briefly return 
again on Sunday before a stronger frontal system moves through 
on Monday. Weak high pressure will return on Tuesday, with 
another low pressure system possible for mid week.

&&

.NEAR TERM /THROUGH TONIGHT/...

Key Messages...

* NW winds 25-30G35-45mph expected through this afternoon. 
  Isolated peak gusts to 50 mph possible.

A vigorous shortwave (seen in WV just west of the area) slides 
through the area this morning and east later this afternoon. At 
the surface, cold front/occluded front pushes east of the 
region by daybreak with developing triple point low tracking SE 
of the region. Weak deformation band in wake of low lifts ne 
through LoHud and S CT through daybreak, with potential for a 
few wet snowflakes mixing in across NW hills before coming to 
an end. No accumulation expected. 

Main story for today will be gusty winds. NW winds 
25-30G35-45mph develop this morning with rapid tightening of 
pressure gradient and modest shot of caa in wake of low 
pressure. A few gusts to 50 mph possible with 900 mb winds at 
top of mixed layer progged to run around 40kt this morning. Mt
Pocono reporting peak wind gusts of 40 kt at 753z. Downward 
momentum transfer setup is not ideal to increase confidence in 
more widespread 50mph gusts this AM. Potential for a few 50 mph
gusts this afternoon as well with deeper diurnal mixing to 
800-850mb and better momentum transfer in wake of shortwave. 
Overall, marginal NW wind advisory potential during pre-green-
up, should limit wind impacts, so have held off on wind advisory.
Winds subside fairly quickly this evening as shortwave ridging 
quickly build in.

Otherwise, clearing skies later this morning, with temps slightly 
above seasonable in offshore flow. Decent radiational  cooling 
conditions across outlying areas tonight, allowing low temps to fall 
well down into the 20s. Otherwise lows in the 30s for
city/coast.

&&

.SHORT TERM /SATURDAY THROUGH MONDAY/...

Key Messages...

* W/NW winds 15-25G30-40mph late Sat/Sat Eve
* Quick shot of polar air Sat Night into Sun AM
* Next chance of a soaking rain (brief wintry mix interior) Sun
  Night into Mon 

Active northern stream with PAC/polar shortwave approaching on 
Sat and crossing Sat night. This followed by shortwave ridging 
Sun ahead of deepening PAC trough/closed low over the upper 
Mississippi River Valley into the Great Lakes, that approaches 
the area on Monday.

Models have trended a bit stronger with the interacting 
polar/pac shortwaves and resultant polar front approaching 
Saturday and crossing Saturday evening. This feature is 
moisture starved, but improved dynamics and even a bit of 
instability do present a better chance for iso-sct shower 
activity, particularly for areas N&W of NYC.

Otherwise, mild and breezy conditions (SW winds 15-25G25-35mph)
develop ahead of the cold front Sat aft with quick shot of waa 
and deep mixing, giving way to glancing shot of polar air Sat 
eve/night on gusty NW G30-40mph in wake of front. 

Brief ridging surface/aloft Sun, in wake of this system with 
temps running slightly below seasonable. 

A stronger frontal system quickly approaches Sun Night/Mon 
associated with vigorous closed low moving through the upper 
Mississippi River Valley/Great Lakes Sun night. Approaching 
shortwave and 55-60kt llj aid lift of +1-2 STD PWAT gulf moisture 
over an approaching warm front to the south, increasing the 
likelihood of rain for the city/coast Sun Night into Monday AM. 

Across the interior, thermal profiles primed by recent polar 
airmass intrusion, could support a period of snow or a wintry 
mix at the onset Sun Night/early Mon AM, before transitioning to
rain. Any snow/wintry mix accum would be light, with NBM probs
for far interior under 10% for 1" and 20 to 30% for > 0.1" at 
this time. In addition, potential for a period of moderate to 
heavy rain as well for eastern portions of the region Monday AM 
(NBM prob of 20-30% for greater than 1" of rain) as WCB develops
with more favorable ulj/llj lift. 

Drying conds Monday afternoon in wake of cold front/developing 
triple pint low.

&&

.LONG TERM /MONDAY NIGHT THROUGH THURSDAY/...
Low pres will depart Mon ngt, with any lingering pcpn rapidly 
tapering off per the consensus fcst. Timing attm is before midnight. 
A developing wly flow could limit low temps. There is a good 
discrepancy with the MEX in some of the outlying locations so there 
could be some colder pockets than the NBM is indicating. 

Despite the cold temps aloft with the GFS around -5C at h85 on Tue, 
wly flow and sunshine should promote good mixing and yield high 
temps aoa climo. The NBM was used. 

The GFS and ECMWF have a weak low passing S of the cwa on Wed. The 
NBM has around a 30 pop for this feature, which seams reasonable 
attm. The ECMWF does take the low to the benchmark at 18Z Wed, but 
the sys is modeled to be progressive and the daytime timing will not 
help with snow chances as well. GFS track is further S. 

Will go with fair and cooler wx for Thu. There is a lot of 
uncertainty this far out, with the suggestion in the GFS that some 
shrtwv energy will traverse the region. Skeptical at this point 
considering the more amplified yet benign ECMWF, so kept the fcst 
dry.

&&

.AVIATION /08Z FRIDAY THROUGH TUESDAY/...
A cold front passes out to sea this morning. High pressure 
gradually builds towards the region today.

Improvement to VFR will continue from W to E thru 10Z. VFR 
thereafter thru the rest of the TAF period. 

NW winds increase substantially thru 12Z, with gusts up to 40kt 
possible during the day. Winds decrease late today and become 
generally lgt and vrb overnight.

 ...NY Metro (KEWR/KLGA/KJFK/KTEB) TAF Uncertainty... 

Peak gusts around 35 kt possible thru 14Z, with peak gusts 
around 40 kt possible 15-22Z.

.OUTLOOK FOR 06Z SATURDAY THROUGH TUESDAY...

Late Tonight: VFR with light winds.

Saturday: VFR. Slight chance of a shower NW of NYC in the
afternoon. SW gusts 20-25kt in the afternoon, becoming W/NW in
the evening.

Sunday: VFR. NW gusts 15-20kt. 

Sunday Night and Monday: Becoming IFR with rain. Possible onset
as snow for KSWF. S gusts 15-20kt near the coast on Monday.

Tuesday: VFR. 

Detailed information, including hourly TAF wind component
forecasts, can be found at: https:/www.weather.gov/zny/n90

&&

.MARINE...  

Seas will gradually subside on the ocean late Mon ngt into Tue,
with winds on all waters blw sca lvls. Winds and waves may 
remain blw sca lvls on Wed, although there will be a weak low to
watch, then sca cond possible by late Thu, mainly on the ocean.

&&

.MARINE...
Marine dense fog advy across water will be able to be lifted at
2am as a frontal system moves across the waters.

SCA remains in effect for the ocean waters for tonight as SE 
flow increases to 20 kt and pushes current 4-5 ft seas to 5-7 ft
late tonight. 

The gale warning for daytime Fri also remains in effect, with
gusts up to 35 kt expected on all waters mainly from late
morning into early afternoon in strong NW flow. 

Sub advisory conditions for Saturday morning, then winds and
seas build in a SW flow. Advisory conditions mainly on the 
ocean Saturday afternoon through Sunday morning. Elsewhere, a 
few gusts to 25 kt possible during Saturday night. Sub-SCA conds
for Sunday afternoon and night as a high pressure ridge shifts
through. The next potential for SCA conds is then on Monday 
ahead of a frontal system, particularly on the ocean. 
Elevated seas may linger through a good portion of Tuesday.

&&

.FIRE WEATHER...
Strong NW flow frequently gusting to 35-45 mph and RH quickly 
lowering to 25-30 percent expected today, after a wetting rain 
of 1/2 to 3/4 inch overnight. Fuel conditions will be re- 
evaluated with land managers this morning to determine the 
potential of elevated risk of fire growth/spread this afternoon.

&&

.HYDROLOGY...
Less than 1/10 inch of additional rainfall this morning. 

Another 1/4 to 3/4 inches of rain possible for Sunday Night 
into Monday.

No significant hydrologic impacts expected through middle of next
week at this time.

&&

.OKX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CT...None.
NY...None.
NJ...None.
MARINE...Gale Warning until 8 PM EDT this evening for ANZ331-332-335-
     338-340-345-350-353-355.

&&

$$

SYNOPSIS...JMC/NV
NEAR TERM...NV
SHORT TERM...NV
LONG TERM...JMC
AVIATION...JMC
MARINE...JMC/NV
FIRE WEATHER...
HYDROLOGY...JMC/NV
