082 
FXUS61 KOKX 010711
AFDOKX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service New York NY
211 AM EST Sat Mar 1 2025

.SYNOPSIS...
Low pressure passes north of the area Saturday, drawing a cold
front through in the afternoon. High pressure then builds in 
through Monday, moving off the coast Monday night into Tuesday. 
Low pressure will then approach from the Plains states and 
impact the area from Tuesday night into Thursday. High pressure 
then follows on Friday.

&&

.NEAR TERM /UNTIL 6 AM THIS MORNING/...
Low pressure over the Great Lakes tonight tracks into eastern
Canada. Southerly flow develops and strengthens ahead of the 
system. The associated warm front will remain well north and 
west of the area with only isolated sprinkles inland. Otherwise,
increasing clouds with above normal lows in the upper 30s to 
lower 40s.

&&

.SHORT TERM /6 AM THIS MORNING THROUGH 6 PM SUNDAY/...
Low pres to the N will draw a cold front thru the area Sat. Temps 
are expected to fall late in the aftn, particularly nwrn areas, with 
caa kicking in. It will be a bit windy as well, especially behind 
the front with subsidence, aided by evap cooling, resulting in a 
well mixed airmass. Increased in gusts to around 30kt for all areas.

As the upr trof comes thru, steepening lapse rates could trigger a 
few shwrs across the area. It would not be surprising to see some 
graupel mixed in. NBM pops were essentially dry, so had to manually 
input the numbers. Went with isold wording for nrn areas where 
confidence was higher, and slight chance wording elsewhere. Any 
shwrs that develop could produce some wind gusts close to 40 mph 
with the evap cooling contribution. 

Any pcpn chances end by dark with decreasing instability, and skies 
clear. Perhaps some lake clouds bleed in from the NW. 

It will remain breezy Sat ngt with caa and unidirectional nwly flow. 
This will bring wind chills into the single digits.

&&

.LONG TERM /SUNDAY NIGHT THROUGH FRIDAY/...
Key Points:

* Temperatures will moderate quickly, from a few degrees below 
  normal on Monday to above normal during mid week. 

* A long duration moderate to locally rainfall event will occur mid 
  week with the approach of a frontal system. 

Global models are overall good agreement through the period and
therefore stayed close to the NBM guidance, minus some small 
timing issues and underperformance of the NBM winds in stronger
flow regimes (particularly W/NW flow). 

The upper trough over the Northeast Monday quickly lifts out
into the North Atlantic, while a strong southern branch closed 
low tracks across the Four Corners region. The unseasonably 
cold airmass in place at the start will be fleeting as a deep-
layered W/SW flow ahead of the southern branch storm system will
become dominant. Temperatures will moderate from highs in the 
30s both Sunday and Monday to well into the 50s on Wednesday in
a strong southerly flow. High pressure over the area Monday 
retreats offshore as low pressure emerges out into the central 
PLains. The low rapidly deepens, tracking northeast across the 
Great Lakes on Wednesday and across eastern Canada on Thursday.
Large scale warm advection in a deep-layered southerly flow
ahead of the system will transport both Gulf and Atlantic moisture
into the system with the potential for bands of moderate to 
heavy rain Wednesday and Wednesday night. The associated cold 
front passes through Thursday morning with lingering showers 
possible through the day with the upper trough passing overhead.
Airmass behind cold front brings lows back down below freezing 
Thursday night with highs in the 40s, closer to normal.

&&

.AVIATION /07Z SATURDAY THROUGH WEDNESDAY/...
VFR.

Weak high pressure to the south moves offshore overnight. Low 
pressure passes to the north overnight and into Saturday, while 
dragging a strong cold across midday and through the afternoon.

Winds will be out of the S as gusts develop overnight with LLWS 
likely from 07Z to 11Z-12Z. Sfc winds then increase ahead of the
cold front out of the SW during the morning before switching 
to the W immediately behind the front. Winds increase further
immediately behind the cold front in the afternoon with gusts 
to around 30 kt, with some peak gusts over 35 kt possible from
about 19Z-22Z. 

 ...NY Metro (KEWR/KLGA/KJFK/KTEB) TAF Uncertainty...

Gusts may be higher than fcst mid to late afternoon on Saturday. 

.OUTLOOK FOR 06Z SUNDAY THROUGH WEDNESDAY...

Late Saturday night: VFR. W/NW G20-25 kt.

Sunday through Tuesday: VFR. 

Tuesday night: Chance of rain with MVFR cond. 

Wednesday: Rain with IFR/LIFR cond. S winds G20-30 kt. 

Detailed information, including hourly TAF wind component
forecasts, can be found at: https:/www.weather.gov/zny/n90

&&

.MARINE...
SCA conditions develop across all waters by Saturday morning in 
a strengthening southerly ahead of low pressure. This continues 
through Saturday night in a NW flow behind a cold frontal 
passage. Seas on the ocean will build to 5 to 9 ft on the ocean 
waters Saturday morning, before gradually subsiding into Sunday.

SCA conditions may linger into Sunday in a diminishing NW flow
as high pressure builds in from the west. Increasing S flow 
ahead of midweek storm system will likely bring 5-ft seas to the
ocean waters Tue night, and SCA conditions to all waters on 
Wednesday and possibly a gale for the ocean with gusts 30-35 kt.
Seas on the ocean may build in excess of 10 ft Wednesday night.

&&

.HYDROLOGY...
A frontal system could bring about an inch of rain on average
from Tuesday night into Thursday. Potential for locally higher 
amounts exists especially Wednesday into Wednesday evening.

&&

.TIDES/COASTAL FLOODING...
A coastal flood statement remains up for S Fairfield and 
Westchester for tonight's high tide cycle close to midnight as 
fcst water levels at the Stamford and Bridgeport gauges may just 
barely touch minor flood thresholds.

&&

.OKX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CT...None.
NY...None.
NJ...None.
MARINE...Small Craft Advisory from 10 AM this morning to 6 AM EST 
     Sunday for ANZ331-332-335-338-340-345.
     Small Craft Advisory until 6 AM EST Sunday for ANZ350-353-355.

&&

$$

SYNOPSIS...JMC/DW
NEAR TERM...JMC/DS
SHORT TERM...JMC
LONG TERM...DW
AVIATION...JE
MARINE...JMC/DW
HYDROLOGY...JMC/DW
TIDES/COASTAL FLOODING...
