940 
FXUS61 KOKX 260015
AFDOKX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service New York NY
815 PM EDT Fri Jul 25 2025

.SYNOPSIS...
A cold front will move through the area this evening. High 
pressure briefly builds into the area tonight into Saturday. A 
weak frontal system moves across the area Saturday Night into 
Sunday. High pressure returns to the area for Monday into 
Tuesday. A cold front approaches from the west on Tuesday 
afternoon and moves offshore Tuesday evening.

&&

.NEAR TERM /UNTIL 6 AM SATURDAY MORNING/...
Organized thunderstorm activity has pushed just southeast of 
the region this evening, with a gradually stabilizing and 
drying environ in its wake. 

Isolated showers, and perhaps a thunderstorms possible through 
9pm as cold front pushes south and northern stream shortwave 
slides through northern New England, but additional severe
storms are not expected. 

A noticeably cooler and drier airmass filters in tonight in the
wake as high pressure builds down from the north. Lows tonight 
into the lower to mid 70s along the coast and upper 60s interior
with Tds gradually falling into the mid to upper 60s.

&&

.SHORT TERM /6 AM SATURDAY MORNING THROUGH SUNDAY NIGHT/...
Region remain on northeast periphery of strong southern upper 
ridge through the weekend, with subtle ridging nosing in on 
Saturday giving way to a shearing central plain short wave Sat 
Night into Sunday.

At the surface, this evening's cold front slides well SE of the
region by Saturday morning, with surface high pressure building
in from the north and centering to the E of the region by Sat 
Night. 

Dry conditions expected on Saturday, with noticeably drier and 
cooler airmass advecting in on gusty N/NE flow Saturday AM, and a 
veil of high clouds in upper flow. Temps will still run slight above 
seasonable with highs in the mid to upper 80s, and heat indices 
similar. 

Models in general agreement with a shearing Central plains 
shortwave approaching Sat Night and moving across the area 
Sunday. At the surface, this will have a warm front approaching 
the area Sat Night but likely not cleanly moving through the 
area till Sun aft with a trailing trough crossing the region in 
the afternoon or evening. Models have had a hard time locking in
on the specific of this event for a few days, with likely 
difficulty in resolving the synoptic development tied to 
mesoscale convective activity. Seems to be some general 
agreement in a weak wave of low pressure tracking across the 
region Sun morning into afternoon, which would be a focus for 
more widespread shower and thunderstorms activity and a low 
flash flood and severe risk in a high shear and marginally 
unstable airmass. Latest guidance has trended this wave north 
of the region, which would limit severe/flash flood potential 
in the morning, and keep it low and isolated in the aft/eve with
warm front/trough passage. This will be refined through the 
weekend as the convectively modified shortwave gets better 
sampled it resolved by high res CAMs.

Otherwise near seasonable temps for Saturday Night with 
increasing humidity levels as return flow develops. Warm and 
muggy for Sunday, but temps may remain below seasonable with 
clouds and shra/tsra activity.

&&

.LONG TERM /MONDAY THROUGH FRIDAY/...
No major changes were made to the long term with this update.

Key Points: 

*High heat and humidity will return early next week, potentially 
lingering into Wednesday. The peak of the heat currently looks to 
occur on Tuesday with max heat index values 100 to around 105F.

*A few showers and thunderstorms are possible Tuesday afternoon and 
evening with a weak cold front. The threat for showers and 
thunderstorms continues Wednesday, potentially lingering into 
Thursday as a stronger cold front moves into the area. 

*Temperatures trend down to end the week with potential of below 
normal temperatures. Humidity levels also should be much lower than 
the first half of the week. 

Good model agreement continues with a large upper ridge over much of 
the central and southern CONUS dominating the weather pattern early 
next week. The ridge builds towards the area Monday and Tuesday then 
slowly gets pushed southward as a deep upper trough digs down from 
southeast Canada to end the week. A series of shortwaves will move 
across the northeast as the ridge weakens late Tuesday into the mid 
week period. 

850 mb temperatures nearing 18-21C early next week, peaking on 
Tuesday, will result in max temperatures in the low to mid 90s 
(upper 80s at the coast). Dew points will likely increase to the low 
and mid 70s by Tuesday resulting in heat indices potentially as high 
as the low 100s (upper 90s coastal areas). Heat headlines are likely 
to be needed Monday and Tuesday. There is a bit more uncertainty 
with the extent of the heat on Wednesday due to timing of the 
aforementioned second cold front. This front passage may not occur 
until Wednesday night or Thursday, which would potentially bring 
another day of heat and humidity on Wednesday. The air mass then 
cools significantly Thursday into Friday with the cold front pushing 
to our south and east. The latest NBM deterministic indicates highs 
in the upper 70s and lower 80s with dew points in the 50s by Friday.

A shower or thunderstorm is possible Tuesday afternoon/evening, but 
the chances are a bit higher on Wednesday with the stronger cold 
front. Model soundings indicate 500-1000J/kg of MUCAPE though shear 
is weak (~20kts) on Tuesday. Shear increases on Wednesday and modest 
instability may be present. CSU-MLP machine learning output is 
highlighting a 15-30% chance of severe thunderstorms, mainly from 
NYC north and west Tuesday. It also indicates a similar potential on 
Wednesday although it is shifted from NYC metro on south and west. 
These details will come into more focus over the next few days, but 
the trend in the last 24 hours is leaning towards Wednesday with the 
main cold front and more organized forcing for convection.

&&

.AVIATION /00Z SATURDAY THROUGH WEDNESDAY/...
A cold front passes through this evening, with high pressure 
briefly following for Saturday.

Winds may be bit erratic the next few hours before the cold 
front passes through, then become northerly at less than 10 kt.
Winds will veer into Saturday becoming SE by afternoon 7-10 kt. 

 ...NY Metro (KEWR/KLGA/KJFK/KTEB) TAF Uncertainty...

Timing of winds veering through the night into Saturday may 
vary by 1-2 hours. 

.OUTLOOK FOR 00Z SUNDAY THROUGH WEDNESDAY... 

Saturday night - Sunday: Mainly VFR. MVFR or lower possible in 
any showers or thunderstorms.

Monday: VFR.

Tuesday - Wednesday: Mainly VFR with possible MVFR or lower in 
showers and thunderstorms each afternoon.

Detailed information, including hourly TAF wind component forecasts, 
can be found at: https:/www.weather.gov/zny/n90

&&

.MARINE...
Scattered thunderstorm activity over the ocean, mainly east of 
Moriches Inlet, is expected to sink se of the waters by 9pm. 
Gusts to 30 kt possible with the strongest storms.

A brief period of 20 kt gusts is possible late tonight into 
Saturday morning.

A relatively weak pressure gradient Monday through Wednesday will 
lead to conditions staying below SCA levels.

&&

.HYDROLOGY...
The localized flash flood threat has come to an end for this
evening.

Showers and thunderstorms associated with a frontal system 
could produce locally heavy downpours on Sunday that present a
minor urban flooding threat, with localized flash flood threat 
appears low at this time.

There are currently no hydrologic concerns next week.

&&

.TIDES/COASTAL FLOODING...
A moderate rip current risk continues for Saturday with a 
mixture of lingering 1 to 2 ft S wind swell and a developing 3 
ft wind wave. 

A moderate rip current risk continues for Sunday with 1 to 2 ft
E wind wave and residual 1ft S/SE wind swell.

&&

.CLIMATE...
Daily record high temperatures maybe be tied or broken today 
July 25th. Here are the previous records for the day, and new 
records set today at EWR, BDR, LGA, and tied at JFK.

EWR 99/2016 - New record: 100/2025
BDR 93/2001 - New record: 94/2025
NYC 97/1999 
LGA 97/1999 - New record: 99/2025
JFK 93/2010 - Ties record: 93/2025
ISP 94/1987

&&

.OKX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CT...Air Quality Alert until 11 PM EDT this evening for CTZ009>012.
NY...Air Quality Alert until 11 PM EDT this evening for NYZ069>075-
     078>081-176>179.
NJ...Air Quality Alert until 11 PM EDT this evening for NJZ004-006-
     103>108.
MARINE...None.

&&

$$

SYNOPSIS...DS/NV
NEAR TERM...NV
SHORT TERM...NV
LONG TERM...DS
AVIATION...DW
MARINE...DS/NV
HYDROLOGY...DS/NV
TIDES/COASTAL FLOODING...NV
CLIMATE...NV
