287 
FXUS61 KOKX 250817
AFDOKX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service New York NY
417 AM EDT Wed Jun 25 2025

.SYNOPSIS...
A surface trough will remain across the area today, while a 
cold front approaches from the north. The cold front will slowly
sag south across the area tonight and into the Mid Atlantic 
states through Friday. The front returns north as a warm front 
Friday night, meandering nearby into the weekend, before lifting
farther north into Monday. A cold front then approaches 
Tuesday.

&&

.NEAR TERM /THROUGH TONIGHT/...
This will be the last day of the heat wave as a confluent upper
flow across eastern Canada and into the Northeast allows high 
pressure to build to the north. This will allow a cold front 
to approach from the north today and sag south across the area 
tonight. The anomalously warm upper ridge across the area will 
gradually be suppressed south during this time, but not before 
another potential record breaking day. Highs look to be about 3 
to 5 degrees cooler, mainly in the mid to upper 90s`away from 
the immediate shoreline. This combined with dew points in the 
upper 60s to around 70 will produce heat indices up to around 
100. Stayed with the NBM deterministic temperatures, which 
trended up a bit. A heat advisory remains in effect for the 
entire forecast through 7 pm.

With the weakening upper ridge, cold front dropping in from the
north, and weak impulses at the southern edge of the westerlies,
widely scattered to scattered showers/thunderstorms are expected
this afternoon into this evening. In addition, latest CAMs show
possible convection along the eastern flank of the cold front
which backs in from the NE this evening. Instability will be
greatest across the Lower Hudson Valley and interior NE NJ, but
wind shear is weak and mid level lapse rates are less than 6C.
This should keep the severe weather threat to the southwest. A 
chance for primarily showers will continue overnight as weak 
impulses ride long the frontal boundary from the west and weak 
warm advection continues as cooler maritime air undercuts the 
warmer westerlies aloft. Brief heavy downpours will be possible,
especially across the western third of the forecast area where
the instability will be greatest. However, the airmass will 
continue to stabilize overnight in a NE/E flow. It will be 
noticeably cooler tonight, but still several degrees above 
normal in the upper 60s to lower 70s.

&&

.SHORT TERM /THURSDAY THROUGH FRIDAY/...
Chances of showers will continue during this time as waves of 
low pressure and convective complexes track along the stalled
boundary west of the forecast area. The airmass across the 
region will be fairly stable during this time due to an easterly
flow. Complexes working in from the Ohio Valley will likely 
dissipate with the best chances for rain being to the north and 
west of NYC. Rainfall amounts will generally be on the light 
side. 

Highs in the mid 70s to around 80 on Thursday will fall to the 
lower 70s on Friday. The latter is about 10 degrees below 
normal. Due to the cloud cover, lows will be near or slightly 
below normal in the upper 50s to mid 60s. 

&&

.LONG TERM /FRIDAY NIGHT THROUGH TUESDAY/...
Stubborn boundary looks to linger nearby this weekend and early next 
week, keeping conditions unsettled.

Periods of showers and thunderstorms are possible at times, 
particularly Friday night through Saturday night as shortwave passes 
north, though it doesn't appear to be a washout, nor a great severe 
concern. Brief high pressure behind the wave could allow a 
relatively quiet Sunday, before digging trough across the Upper 
Great Lakes slides east, returning the boundary from the south as a 
warm front early next week. An attendant cold front looks to follow 
by Tuesday, maintaining chances for additional showers and 
thunderstorms.

Temperatures start much more seasonable for late June, afternoon 
highs on Saturday into the upper 70s and lower 80s, before warming 
into the mid to upper 80s early next week. With dew pts progged into 
the 60s and low 70s, heat indices could approach mid 90s, especially 
Monday and Tuesday next week

&&

.AVIATION /07Z WEDNESDAY THROUGH SUNDAY/...
High pressure remains in control into this afternoon. A back door 
cold front moves into the terminals this evening through tonight.

VFR thru the TAF period. 

Winds light and variable or a light W/NW flow overnight. NW to NNW 
flow 10 kt or less later today with occasional afternoon gusts up to 
20 kt at the NYC metro terminals, except at KJFK where a sea breeze 
is likely. Winds veer NE late this evening into the night.

Late day, after 20Z, isolated to scattered thunderstorms are 
possible, though with uncertain coverage, timing, and location 
continue to omit from TAF at this time.

 ...NY Metro (KEWR/KLGA/KJFK/KTEB) TAF Uncertainty...

Timing of sea breeze at KJFK uncertain today and may be later than 
forecast.

Occasional afternoon WNW gusts up to 20 kt possible at KEWR, KLGA, 
and KTEB.

Possible late day or early evening showers or thunderstorms, low 
confidence in timing or placement.

.OUTLOOK FOR 06Z THURSDAY THROUGH SUNDAY... 

Late tonight: Mainly VFR. A chance of showers and thunderstorms. 
Winds becoming NE late Wednesday night.

Thursday: MVFR or lower possible, mainly in showers, possibly a 
thunderstorm.

Friday: MVFR or lower possible. Chance of showers, possibly a 
thunderstorm.

Saturday: MVFR or lower possible. Chance of showers, possibly a 
thunderstorm.

Sunday: Improvement to VFR possible.

Detailed information, including hourly TAF wind component forecasts, 
can be found at: https:/www.weather.gov/zny/n90

&&

.MARINE...
With the absence of a steep pressure gradient, conditions on 
the waters are forecast to remain below SCA thresholds now 
through the weekend. However, a strengthening easterly flow on 
the ocean waters will produce gusts up to 20 kt with seas 
building to around 4 ft Thursday night into Friday, possibly as
high as 5 ft Friday night east of Moriches Inlet.

&&

.HYDROLOGY...
No significant hydrologic impacts expected during this time.

&&

.TIDES/COASTAL FLOODING...
Steven surge guidance has trended higher for total water level with 
potentially some moderate coastal flooding possible for Thursday 
night high tide cycles within South Shore Bays. However, recent 
observations have been a little under what Stevens has predicted. 

Therefore, still expecting the coastal flooding to remain minor with 
the nighttime high tide cycles. More isolated minor coastal flooding 
Wednesday night with potentially more widespread minor coastal 
flooding Thursday night with localized moderate coastal flooding 
possible.

Previous discussion follows.

There is the potential for minor coastal flooding during the 
nighttime high tide cycles this week. This is due to high 
astronomical tides associated with a new moon on June 25. There is 
little wind forcing at this time to produce much surge.

Shoreline areas that could have see minor coastal flooding around 
the times of high tide include the South Shore Bays, western LI 
Sound, and portions of the Lower NY Harbor. Inundation of less than 
half a foot may be possible here. 

For Wednesday night through Thursday night, winds become more 
easterly, allowing for greater piling up of water. Surge model 
guidance indicates a greater surge potentially here with more sites 
exceeding minor coastal flood benchmarks. Thursday night looks like 
the better chance for an advisory level event. 

There remains a moderate risk of rip currents along all ocean 
beaches today with greater onshore flow around 10 kt and some 
lingering onshore long period swell of 2 ft. 

Rip current risk forecast for ocean beaches Wednesday is low 
with less wave activity expected as winds will be lighter. 
However, a moderate rip current risk is forecast for Thursday 
along the ocean beaches with more easterly winds and waves 
building.

&&

.CLIMATE...
Wednesday's Record Highs (June 25):
EWR  100 / 1943
BDR  94  / 1952
NYC  99  / 1943, 1952
LGA  99  / 1943, 1952
JFK  98  / 1952
ISP  92  / 2003

&&

.OKX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CT...Heat Advisory until 7 PM EDT this evening for CTZ005>012.
     Air Quality Alert from 11 AM this morning to 11 PM EDT this 
     evening for CTZ009>012.
NY...Heat Advisory until 7 PM EDT this evening for NYZ067>075-
     078>081-176>179.
     Air Quality Alert from 11 AM this morning to 11 PM EDT this 
     evening for NYZ069>075-078>081-176>179.
NJ...Heat Advisory until 7 PM EDT this evening for NJZ002-004-006-
     103>108.
     Air Quality Alert from 11 AM this morning to 11 PM EDT this 
     evening for NJZ004-006-103>108.
MARINE...None.

&&

$$

SYNOPSIS...DR/DW
NEAR TERM...DW
SHORT TERM...DW
LONG TERM...DR
AVIATION...DR
MARINE...DR/DW
HYDROLOGY...DR/DW
TIDES/COASTAL FLOODING...
CLIMATE...
