787 
FXUS61 KOKX 040339
AFDOKX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service New York NY
1039 PM EST Mon Mar 3 2025

.SYNOPSIS...
High pressure off the Mid Atlantic coast will continue to move
farther offshore into Tuesday. Strong low pressure moving 
through the upper Great Lakes region will send a warm front 
through on Wednesday, followed by a cold front Thursday morning.
High pressure will then gradually build in as it passes to the 
south through Friday. A weak frontal system then passes through 
on Saturday. Weak high pressure follows for Sunday and Monday.

&&

.NEAR TERM /UNTIL 6 AM TUESDAY MORNING/...
Weak low-level warm advection overnight will put a cap on lows
as the temperatures level off and may even rise a bit along the
coast. Some coastal locations across eastern LI which decoupled
earlier in the evening got down into the lower 20s, have started
to rebound.

Otherwise, high pressure off the Mid Atlantic coast will 
continue to move farther offshore overnight. The will allow for 
a light SW flow but a bit stronger along the immediate coast. In
addition, mid level clouds will be on the increases thickening 
up some toward daybreak. Lows will generally be in the mid 20s 
to lower 30s. 

&&

.SHORT TERM /6 AM TUESDAY MORNING THROUGH WEDNESDAY NIGHT/...
Strong low pressure approaches from the west on Tuesday. The 
daylight hours will be dry, with the southerly flow gradually 
increasing and broken mid to high level clouds around. Strong warm 
advection kicks in and high temperatures look to reach the 50s 
across northeast NJ, the Lower Hudson Valley and NYC, with the 
middle to upper 40s expected across LI and southern CT with more of 
the marine influence.

As the strong low tracks to our northwest, it will bring a warm 
front through on Wednesday and a cold front by early Thursday 
morning. Light overrunning rain likely starts ahead of the warm 
front Tuesday night. A period of more steady and heavier rain is 
expected sometime between Wednesday afternoon into early Wednesday 
night out ahead of the cold front. Deep strong lift combines with 
anomalous moisture to bring the chance of moderate to locally heavy 
rain showers. The strong southerly flow will bring in a plume of 
moisture characterized by pwats around 1.25 inches and dewpoints in 
the lower 50s. Per SPC's Sounding Climatology Page, this pwat value 
would be higher than the max moving average and the daily max for 
the OKX 3/6 00z upper air sounding. At this time, flooding is not 
expected, but rainfall rates of 1/2 to 3/4 of an inch in an hour 
could lead to some nuisance urban and poor drainage flooding.

Strong winds are also possible with this system. A LLJ peaks over 
the area Wednesday evening through early Wednesday night with 60 to 
70 knots at 925mb. There is an inversion in place, and the question 
is exactly how much can mix down. Taking 50-60% of the 925 LLJ 
leaves us just short of Wind Advisory criteria over Long Island at 
this time.

There does look to be weak instability aloft. Will leave slight 
chance of thunder in for now for western locations late 
Wednesday afternoon and early evening.

&&

.LONG TERM /THURSDAY THROUGH MONDAY/...
Cyclonic flow aloft in the wake of the departing cold front 
maintains a chance of a shower mainly north of city during Thursday. 
After a lull in winds, W to NW gusts begin to pick up as early as 
late in the day, but more so Thursday night as the pressure gradient 
tightens over the region. Gusts 30-35 mph anticipated during the 
night into Friday morning, then winds subside Friday afternoon as 
the pressure gradient weakens. High temperatures for both Thursday 
and Friday above normal. 

A weak low center then approaches late Friday night and passes 
through during Saturday. Slight chance PoPs for this period. Any 
precip would be light and would likely be in the form rain at the 
coast and a rain/snow mix inland. 

The most likely scenario for Sunday appears to be another area of 
low pressure emerging off the east coast, but this time in the 
vicinity of the Carolinas. Only the 12z GFS introduces a scenario 
where this low passes just south of the forecast area as a southern 
stream shortwave attempts to phase with northern stream energy. All 
other guidance supports the low passing well off to our south. Will 
therefore continue with a dry forecast for Sunday, especially with 
this being only first GFS run to show this alternate scenario. Weak 
high pressure then keeps dry weather in the forecast through Monday.

&&

.AVIATION /04Z TUESDAY THROUGH SATURDAY/...
High pressure off the Mid Atlantic coast will continue to
retreat offshore as a storm system emerges from the Central
Plains.

VFR thru the TAF period. 

SW winds generally less than 10 kt overnight, but increasing
after daybreak and gradually backing around to S at 10-15kt 
G20kt. A few higher gusts are possible across the eastern 
terminals. Gusts will drop off 22Z-00Z.

 ...NY Metro (KEWR/KLGA/KJFK/KTEB) TAF Uncertainty...

Onset timing of gusts may vary by 1-2 hours, especially on the
early side. 

.OUTLOOK FOR 00Z WEDNESDAY THROUGH SATURDAY...

Tuesday Night: Becoming MVFR late. SSW flow increasing thru the
period, especially aloft with LLWS possible aft 6Z Wed.

Wednesday: MVFR becoming IFR and lower with periods of rain. Isold 
tstms possible. LLWS can be expected. S winds increasing to
15-25 kt with some gusts around 40kt, especially the S shore of
LI.

Thursday: Mainly VFR. Gusty WNW winds developing in the 
afternoon, increasing to 15-25kt G30-40kt

Friday: VFR. W winds G25-35kt.

Saturday: VFR with W-NW flow.

Detailed information, including hourly TAF wind component forecasts, 
can be found at: https:/www.weather.gov/zny/n90

&&

.MARINE...
High pressure shifts offshore tonight into Tuesday and results in a 
southerly return flow. The flow strengthens ahead of an approaching 
frontal system, with SCA criteria expected on the ocean waters by 1 
PM Tuesday. The flow continues to strengthen, and by 1 PM Wednesday 
gale conditions are possible on all waters. There is now a Gale 
Watch in effect for all waters. Peak wind gusts are expected 
Wednesday evening, with gusts up to 40 kt possible. Peak seas on the 
ocean will be late Wednesday night into Thursday morning, up to 14 
feet. Waves on the northern half of the LI Sound look to top out 
around 5 feet.

Winds may briefly subside below SCA levels Thursday morning but 
should increase again in the afternoon and evening with a steepening 
pressure gradient. SCA conditions are likely Thursday night into 
Friday with potential of gales, especially on the ocean waters, and 
lasting into Friday morning. Winds should start to weaken late 
Friday and may fall below SCA levels late Friday night. Seas will be 
hazardous between 8-12 ft on the ocean Thursday into Friday morning 
and then subside closer to 5 ft Friday night. Waves on the LI Sound 
may build to 3-6 ft Thursday night. A westerly flow near 15 kt then 
sustains sub-advisory conditions through Saturday.

&&

.HYDROLOGY...
A frontal system impacting the region Wednesday and Wednesday night 
should produce QPF of 1.0 to 1.5 inches, with the higher totals 
expected inland. Rainfall rates could approach 1/2 to 3/4 inch in 
spots at the time of heaviest rainfall, which would lead to nuisance 
urban and poor drainage flooding.

No hydrological impacts are expected thereafter.

&&

.OKX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CT...None.
NY...None.
NJ...None.
MARINE...Gale Watch from Wednesday afternoon through late Wednesday 
     night for ANZ331-332-335-338-340-345.
     Small Craft Advisory from 1 PM Tuesday to 6 AM EST Wednesday 
     for ANZ350-353-355.
     Gale Watch from Wednesday morning through late Wednesday night 
     for ANZ350-353-355.

&&

$$

SYNOPSIS...JC/JT/DW
NEAR TERM...JT/DW
SHORT TERM...JT
LONG TERM...JC
AVIATION...DW
MARINE...JC/JT
HYDROLOGY...JC/JT
