527 
FXUS61 KOKX 200521
AFDOKX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service New York NY
1221 AM EST Thu Feb 20 2025

.SYNOPSIS...
Low pressure off the Carolina coast deepen as it tracks well 
south and east of the area Thursday and Thursday night. 
Thereafter, sprawling high pressure over the mid section of the 
country builds in through the weekend, remaining in control 
through Monday. A weak low pressure system passes to our north 
on Tuesday. Weak high pressure then builds back on Wednesday.

&&

.NEAR TERM /UNTIL 6 AM THIS MORNING/...
A piece of high pressure originating from a larger high east of
the Rockies will remain in place tonight as low pressure 
deepens along the southeast coast. High clouds to the north of 
the low as well as ahead of the large closed upper low will 
continue to stream overhead this evening. The thicker high 
clouds may briefly sag south of the area or remain closer to the
coast for much of the the night. Winds should also be much 
lighter compared to the last few nights as the pressure gradient
is much lighter. Some outlying areas may even decouple for a 
time late tonight. Low temperatures are a bit of a challenge due
to the potential of the higher clouds ending up a bit thicker, 
preventing the most ideal radiational cooling conditions. Low 
temperatures are coldest inland where less clouds are expected 
and will generally be around 10 degrees. Elsewhere, lows look to
range from the middle to upper teens.

&&

.SHORT TERM /6 AM THIS MORNING THROUGH FRIDAY NIGHT/...
There has been very little change to the expected conditions
for Thursday as the model guidance has continued to show the 
deepening low pressure tracking well south and east of the 
region. Several of the outlier members which were showing the 
northern edge of the precip shield scraping the eastern part of 
Long Island have also backed off, keeping any measurable precip 
offshore. Have trended the forecast in this direction with much 
of the daytime hours dry. 

The aforementioned closed upper low will slide across the region 
late Thursday afternoon into Thursday night. The upper low then 
pushes offshore towards early Friday morning. Energy associated
with the upper low may be enough to develop isolated to 
scattered snow showers late in the afternoon and evening. The 
location of these is somewhat uncertain and can be difficult to 
predict under deep upper lows. However, the latest high res 
modeling is signaling the southern half of the area with a 
slightly higher probability for snow showers. The sub cloud 
layer remains dry, but any localized enhancement could put down 
a light accumulation in the evening. Have kept probabilities low
for now given the uncertainty, but a coating to a few tenths of
accumulation cannot be ruled out. It is also possible that some
of this activity ends up being flurries. Any snow 
showers/flurries push offshore and diminish overnight with cold 
and blustery conditions returning. NW winds will likely gust 
25-30 mph by day break Friday morning. Daytime highs on Thursday
will range from the mid 20s inland to around 30 at the coast. 
Lows Thursday night will be in the upper teens to lower 20s. 
Wind chills to start the day Friday will likely be in the single
digits to around 10 degrees.

Sprawling high pressure across the mid section of the country
builds into the area on Friday. NW winds will likely continue 
gusting 25 to 30 mph through the day with temperatures remaining
below normal in the upper 20s to lower 30s. The high pressure 
settles across the Middle Atlantic and Southeast Friday night 
with any gusts diminishing. Winds look light under a mostly 
clear sky condition with temperatures mainly in the teens.

&&

.LONG TERM /SATURDAY THROUGH WEDNESDAY/...
The flow aloft during this weekend will be zonal for the most
part although models indicate weak troughing Saturday night 
into Sunday. Models have trended a little flatter with this 
trough since 24 hours ago along with less moisture. A dry 
forecast has therefore been maintained for both Saturday and 
Sunday. Highs 35-40 for Saturday, then seasonable on Sunday in 
the lower 40s.

Differences exist among the global models regarding the timing
of upper and surface features from Monday night through 
Wednesday. There is however general agreement that a surface low
shifting east from the vicinity of the northern Great Lakes 
Region passes well to our north at some point on Tuesday. An 
attendant warm front and cold front along with shortwaves aloft 
provide the lift for low chances of precip from Monday night 
through Tuesday night. Kept precip types simple with rain and/or
snow. Coastal areas would see the precip all in the form of 
rain with the wintry mix potential inland. Weak ridging then 
follows for Wednesday with dry weather anticipated along with 
highs in the middle to upper 40s.

&&

.AVIATION /06Z THURSDAY THROUGH MONDAY/...
Low pressure passes well south and east of the area through 
Thursday. An upper level low will cross the area Thursday 
evening and will bring scattered snow showers to the terminals. 
High pressure builds in late Thursday night.

VFR through most of the TAF period as a mid level deck 
overspreads the region and lowers. Prob30 for light snow showers
after 22z Thu. MVFR possible. However, the snow could be more 
widespread and may need to be placed in a brief TEMPO or 
prevailing in upcoming forecasts. Around half an inch of snow 
or less is possible.

WNW to NW winds around 10 kt or less. Winds then become NW-N 
tonight at 10 kt or less. Winds then shift to the NW Thursday at
10 to 15 kt with gusts to around 25 kt by the late afternoon, 
generally after 22Z. An isolated gust to 30 kt is possible. 
Gusts continue overnight.

 ...NY Metro (KEWR/KLGA/KJFK/KTEB) TAF Uncertainty...

No unscheduled amendments are expected. 

.OUTLOOK FOR 06Z FRIDAY THROUGH MONDAY...

Thursday Night: Chance MVFR or lower in light snow, otherwise VFR. 
NW winds G20-25kt at night. 

Friday: VFR. NW winds G20-25 kt.

Saturday and Sunday: VFR. 

Monday...Mainly VFR...slight chance of MVFR in showers.

Detailed information, including hourly TAF wind component forecasts, 
can be found at: https:/www.weather.gov/zny/n90

&&

.MARINE...
Conditions remain below Small Craft Advisory (SCA) levels 
through Thursday. SCA conditions return Thursday night with
increasing flow, continuing through Friday as high pressure 
builds behind a departing offshore low pressure. Have issued a 
new SCA from 6pm Thursday through 6pm Friday. SCA conditions may
linger on the ocean Friday night, but winds and seas should be 
subsiding through the night.

Sub advisory conditions then prevail through the upcoming
weekend with the pressure gradient a little weaker as high 
pressure shifts off the Carolina coast. A WSW flow through much 
of the weekend becomes southerly during Monday, but winds and 
seas should remain below advisory thresholds.

&&

.HYDROLOGY...
No hydrologic impacts are expected through the middle of next 
week.

&&

.OKX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CT...None.
NY...None.
NJ...None.
MARINE...Small Craft Advisory from 6 PM this evening to 6 PM EST Friday 
     for ANZ331-332-335-338-340-345-350-353-355.

&&

$$

SYNOPSIS...JC/DS
NEAR TERM...DR/DS
SHORT TERM...DS
LONG TERM...JC
AVIATION...JP/MET
MARINE...JC/DS
HYDROLOGY...JC/DS
