476 
FXUS61 KOKX 220712
AFDOKX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service New York NY
212 AM EST Wed Jan 22 2025

.SYNOPSIS...
High pressure continues to build in from the west through
Wednesday, and will be in control for late this week as low 
pressure passes well offshore on Thursday, and again late Friday
and Friday night. A weak cold front is expected to pass through
late in the weekend as another low develops offshore and tracks
well east of the region early next week.

&&

.NEAR TERM /UNTIL 6 AM THIS MORNING/...
Precipitation has ended across Eastern Long Island as the 
earlier light snow showers as depicted by around 10 to 15 dBZ 
band of reflectivity detected by Doppler Radar has moved well 
southeast of Long Island.

Clouds are lowering from NW to SE and expect this trend to
continue into daybreak. Temperatures and dewpoints not changed
much. High pressure will be building in at the surface.

Regarding the cold, part of the challenge of forecasting low 
temperatures and wind chills will be the northern extent of cirrus 
associated with the potential snowfall near the coast. Areas 
northwest of NYC would have the best shot at radiational cooling 
with the better chances of a clear or mostly clear sky, light to 
calm winds, and an existing snow pack. Have gone below guidance for 
low temperatures here based on what occurred last night, but didn't 
want to stray significantly due to the cirrus uncertainty. This 
yields minimum wind chills/apparent temperatures right around the 
advisory threshold (-10) for mainly NW portions of Orange County, 
but not enough coverage across the entire county for a Cold Weather 
Advisory. Elsewhere, wind chills drop to 0 to 5 below for the 
most part - short of advisory criteria.

&&

.SHORT TERM /6 AM THIS MORNING THROUGH 6 PM THURSDAY/...
High pressure continues to build in, with its ridge shifting through 
during Wednesday evening. Winds will slowly diminish in the 
afternoon and become light and variable at times during the night. 
Highs still well below normal in the upper teens to lower 20s. Cloud 
cover once again adds some uncertainty regarding low temperatures 
and minimum wind chills/apparent temperatures for Wednesday night. 
Thinking clouds will have a little more impact on the temps this 
time around, and with slight temperature moderation regardless of 
clouds, wind chills will fall short of advisory thresholds once 
again. Western Orange County would again be closest to reaching 
advisory levels.

&&

.LONG TERM /THURSDAY NIGHT THROUGH TUESDAY/...
With respect to the longwave pattern across North America, a mean 
ridge position centered just off or right along the west coast and a 
mean trough centered in the East is progged to prevail through early 
next week. The mean trough should lift some to the north and be 
centered more across the Mid Atlantic and Northeast for the weekend 
and into the start of next week.There is excellent agreement for the 
most part among the global deterministic suites of the GFS, ICON, 
CMC, and ECMWF at 500 mb regarding longwave positioning, along with 
the more specific shortwave features.

With regard to the details, high pressure should prevail at the sfc 
to begin the period on Thursday despite shortwave energy pivoting 
through the region. The energy will be sheared as the trough will be 
somewhat positively tilted which has been a recurring theme much of 
this winter season thus far. Any positive vorticity advection should 
be short lived and should progress quickly offshore, thus the 
offshore development of low pressure Thursday afternoon and night 
with just some mid or high level clouds expected. A similar 
occurrence repeats into Friday and Friday night with a second strung 
out shortwave, this one from a more southern source. Kept PoPs 
minimal as the confidence remains higher than average for things to 
remain primarily dry as the models keep energy locked up in a more 
less closed off feature in the southern branch of the jet stream 
over the SW US. If the models are handling this poorly then perhaps 
any of these offshore systems could theoretically track further west 
and closer to the coast, however this seems very unlikely given 
model / ensemble consistency and spread.

A reinforcing shot of cold air arrives early next week with a cold 
frontal passage. This front will have little to no moisture to work 
with as it will be northern branch based. Thus have kept PoPs 
minimal to slight chance PoPs for late Sunday into early Monday. 
Otherwise dry, with temperatures continuing to average mainly below 
normal. Temperatures do try to recover closer to the seasonal 
averages Saturday night through Tuesday, however there is increasing 
uncertainty around temperatures late in the period as the northern 
branch may dive further south than some of the deterministic guidance 
is indicating, along with some northern shortwave timing
differences.

&&

.AVIATION /07Z WEDNESDAY THROUGH SUNDAY/...
High pressure will continue to build into the region through 
the TAF period. 

VFR. W to WNW flow shifting to the NW overnight and persisting 
through much of Wednesday. Winds speeds will be 10 kt or less 
through the forecast period and may become light and variable 
late day as the high moves overhead. Isolated gusts of 15 to 20 
kt are possible through 07Z-09Z tonight.

Some high and mid level clouds before clear overnight.

 ...NY Metro (KEWR/KLGA/KJFK/KTEB) TAF Uncertainty...

No unscheduled AMD expected.

.OUTLOOK FOR 06Z THURSDAY THROUGH SUNDAY...

Wednesday night through Friday: VFR. 

Saturday: VFR. W winds 10-15G20kt NYC metro/coastal terminals.

Sunday: VFR. W gusts 20 kt.

Detailed information, including hourly TAF wind component forecasts, 
can be found at: https:/www.weather.gov/zny/n90

&&

.MARINE...
A shortwave passing through and subsequent cold air advection 
tonight has increased wind gusts. Some wind gusts have already 
reached 25 kts on parts of the waters. Expecting this to 
continue into the morning and become less frequent. Short fused 
SCA has been issued for the ocean zones until 12PM Wednesday. 
Otherwise, below SCA wind gusts are expected for the non-ocean 
zones through Wednesday morning.

Also, some moderate freezing spray has been reported by some 
buoys. This is in combination of higher seas, lower SSTs in the
low to mid 30s, low air temperatures near 20 degrees F and winds
near 10-20 kt. Expecting this to continue into Wednesday morning
across the ocean zones west of Moriches Inlet and the Long
Island Sound west of Orient Point. Other water areas are not
expected to get much if any freezing spray and certainly not
moderate freezing spray as seas are lower and SSTs are
relatively warmer in some cases.

Winds slowly diminish through the day Wednesday and may become 
light and variable for a time during Wednesday night as a ridge 
of high pressure pushes into the region. Below SCA conditions
are expected Wednesday afternoon through Thursday.

A period of marginal small craft gusts are possible on the ocean 
waters towards Thursday night, otherwise conditions should remain 
below small craft criteria for the first half of Saturday on all 
waters. For the second half of the weekend the likelihood of small 
craft conditions begins to increase.

&&

.HYDROLOGY...
No hydrologic issues are anticipated throughout the entirety of the 
forecast.

&&

.OKX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CT...None.
NY...None.
NJ...None.
MARINE...Freezing Spray Advisory until noon EST today for ANZ331-335-
     353-355.
     Small Craft Advisory until noon EST today for ANZ350-353-355.

&&

$$

SYNOPSIS...JC/JE
NEAR TERM...JC/JE/JM
SHORT TERM...JC
LONG TERM...JE
AVIATION...BC/JP
MARINE...JC/JE/JM
HYDROLOGY...JC/JE
