677 
FXUS61 KOKX 201135
AFDOKX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service New York NY
735 AM EDT Tue May 20 2025

.SYNOPSIS...
A high pressure ridge noses down from the north and northwest today. 
An expansive frontal system approaches Wednesday with a coastal low 
developing nearby on Thursday. The low then moves northeast and 
into the Canadian Maritimes Thursday night through Saturday, and 
remains over the Maritimes through Sunday. Weak high pressure
then builds in Sunday night through Monday.

&&

.NEAR TERM /THROUGH TONIGHT/...
It will be the last nice weather day for awhile as a high pressure 
ridges down across the eastern Great Lakes and Northeast into this 
afternoon. The pressure gradient finally relaxes as a result as the 
gusty breezes from the previous couple of days come to an end. More 
in the way of sunshine is anticipated during this morning in 
comparison to later in the day. Scattered to broken cloud cover 
should prevail going through the day. Temperatures overall should 
average a few degrees below normal, but all in all a fairly good 
spring day.

Clouds gradually increase through tonight. The latest NWP guidance 
is slower with the progression of mid level moisture into the region 
during tonight compared to previous NWP model iterations. There 
have been hints that the lower part of the column may moisten up 
enough where a few light showers / sprinkles may develop get closer 
to midnight. Some of the higher resolution model reflectivity progs 
have been suggestive of this. Have doubts as to whether the depth of 
the lower level moisture would be sufficient to produce droplets big 
enough to descend to the surface. Thus, have kept all of the 
evening dry, with PoPs increasing late at night and into Wed AM from 
WSW to ENE. Temperatures should fall close to the seasonal averages 
with night time lows mainly in the lower and middle 50s.

&&

.SHORT TERM /WEDNESDAY THROUGH THURSDAY/...
A difficult forecast for Wednesday with respect to how far east any 
organized rain gets. The NWP guidance has timing differences with 
regard to the progression of the arrival of the leading edge of 
organized stratiform rain in advance of an old warm / occluded 
frontal boundary. The timing differences stem mainly from varying 
amounts of dry air in the mid levels that needs to be overcome. 
Forecast soundings indicate a good deal of mid level dry air and the 
questions is how long will it take for the column to moisten 
sufficiently to develop the steadier rainfall. For now have taken 
more of a consensus / middle of the road approach and steadily raise 
PoPs through the day from SW to NE. With an onshore flow steadily 
increasing into the afternoon look for winds closer to the coast to 
gust during the afternoon and evening. With the onshore winds and 
clouds temperatures should average at least 10, maybe as much as 15 
degrees below average with mainly upper 50s for daytime max 
temperatures.

For Wednesday night carry likely to categorical PoPs. A coastal low 
begins to develop into early Thursday morning. This should focus a 
surge of mid level warm advection into the region with a LLJ out of 
the east at around 30 kt. This will be the main forcing function of 
the steadier rainfall that arrives late Wed night / early Thu 
morning. This steadier rain will fall through at least the first 
half of the day, and perhaps carry into a portion of the afternoon. 
With the clouds, rain, and wind temperatures will remain well below 
normal into Thursday. Max temperatures will in all likelihood not 
get out of the 50s region wide. Minimum temperatures Wed night will 
average close to the seasonal averages with a cool onshore wind. For 
rainfall totals and more detailed hydrology information see the 
Hydrology section.

&&

.LONG TERM /THURSDAY NIGHT THROUGH MONDAY/...
The forecast guidance remains rather consistent from previous 
forecasts as a developing coastal low Wednesday night tracks 
northeast of the region Thursday night through Friday night and 
remains over the Canadian Maritimes Saturday into Sunday. Shower 
chances taper off Thursday night as the low departs. However, 
chances of showers remain through Saturday as a closed upper low and 
trough remain over the northeast. The upper trough weakening 
Saturday night into Sunday as heights slowly rise. As a result the 
area will likely be dry. Additional energy tracks through the near 
zonal flow and into the region Monday into Monday night, and may 
brings a few showers to the area for Memorial Day. The NBM guidance 
was used through the extended period. And blended in the 90th 
percentile for winds and gusts Thursday night into Friday as the low 
departs to the northeast. Temperatures will be near or just below 
normal Thursday night through Sunday, and return to near normal 
levels for Memorial Day.

&&

.AVIATION /12Z TUESDAY THROUGH SATURDAY/...
Weakening low pressure over the Canadian Maritimes tracks slowly
southeast out into the western Atlantic, while weak high 
pressure builds in from the west through today. The high moves 
east while a frontal system approaches to the southwest tonight.

VFR until late tonight, with MVFR cigs developing east of the NYC 
terminals 04Z to 06Z, and in the NYC metro area 07Z to 09Z.

N wind 10-14kt through most of today, weakening late day and 
becoming NE. The flow could weaken enough for seabreeze 
development, mainly at KJFK, and possibly KISP and KLGA. 
Therefore, lower confidence in wind direction at the coastal 
terminals this afternoon. Winds become easterly during the
evening and increase late tonight into Wednesday morning.


  ...NY Metro (KEWR/KLGA/KJFK/KTEB) TAF Uncertainty...

Occasional gusts til 14Z, up to 20kt.

Chance of a late afternoon seabreeze, mainly at KJFK, but low 
confidence at this time. Low confidence wind direction as winds 
become light mid to late afternoon at KJFK and KLGA. 

.OUTLOOK FOR 12Z WEDNESDAY THROUGH SATURDAY...

Wednesday: MVFR or lower with rain developing from west to east
through the day. E wind gusts up to 20kt, increasing to 20-25kt
at night.

Thursday: MVFR or lower with rain. E winds backing to the NE late in 
the day with gusts up to 30kt. Wind diminishing at night and 
becoming N.

Friday: MVFR or lower with a chance of showers. 

Saturday: Chance of MVFR in showers.

Detailed information, including hourly TAF wind component forecasts, 
can be found at: https:/www.weather.gov/zny/n90

&&

.MARINE...
Sub advisory conditions return to the ocean waters today into 
tonight with diminishing winds with a weak pressure gradient getting 
briefly established through the first half of Tuesday night. Towards 
Wednesday morning an easterly flow quickly ramps up, especially into 
the late day and evening as small craft conditions develop. Small 
craft conditions prevail Wednesday night across all waters as a 
coastal low begins to develop, with a period of gale force winds a 
possibility into the day Thursday out on the ocean on a stronger 
east to northeasterly fetch.

Small craft conditions will likely be on-going across the forecast 
waters Thursday evening, with gusts falling below 25kt by late 
Thursday night. However, ocean seas will remain elevated at SCA 
levels through most of Friday. Thereafter, winds and seas will 
remain below advisory levels Friday night through Sunday night.

&&

.HYDROLOGY...
Average rainfall amounts of 1 to 1.5 inches is expected across the 
CWA for mid week (mainly Wednesday through Thursday), with 
additional quarter inch amounts across SE CT and lighter amounts 
elsewhere into Thursday night. At this time rainfall rates are not 
expected to exceed a half inch per hour with more of a stratiform 
rain with periods of mainly moderate intensity with colder rain 
processes. At this time more of a nuisance urban poor drainage type 
flooding remains a possibility late Wed night into Thursday. Some 
streams and rivers across mainly CT basins may rise some, but should 
not result in flooding as the rain should fall over a long enough 
duration. There are no hydrologic concerns Friday into the 
beginning of next week.

&&

.TIDES/COASTAL FLOODING...
A strengthening/persistent E-NE flow Wednesday through Thursday
may result in minor coastal flooding mid to late week. The 
latest information indicates that water levels should remain 
below minor coastal flood benchmarks during time of high tide 
late Wednesday and early Thursday. Based on the latest data the
two high tides of most concern are the Thursday afternoon / 
evening and the late Friday afternoon / evening cycles. The 
second of these may result in only localized minor flooding in 
and around the tidal waterways of NE NJ and Staten Island, and 
along the south shore bays of Nassau County despite being higher
astronomically. The first round should result in more 
widespread minor flooding due to a stronger and more onshore 
wind component, with departures 2.0 to 2.5 ft, as winds appear 
more likely to remain mainly NE through most of the day Thursday
before backing to N Thursday into Thursday night.

&&

.OKX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CT...None.
NY...None.
NJ...None.
MARINE...None.

&&

$$

SYNOPSIS...JE/MET
NEAR TERM...JE
SHORT TERM...JE
LONG TERM...MET
AVIATION...MET
MARINE...JE/MET
HYDROLOGY...JE/MET
TIDES/COASTAL FLOODING...
