927 
FXUS61 KOKX 240220
AFDOKX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service New York NY
1020 PM EDT Mon Jun 23 2025

.SYNOPSIS...
High pressure remains in control through Tuesday. A weakening 
cold front moves into the region Wednesday. Frontal boundary 
stalls out with low pressure developing along it to the west of 
the region. This low approaches the region Wednesday night into 
Thursday. The frontal boundary remains within the vicinity of 
the local region thereafter into the weekend. Front pushes north
as a warm front for early next week.

&&

.NEAR TERM /UNTIL 6 AM TUESDAY MORNING/...
Forecast on track for tonight. No changes made to the extreme
heat warnings and heat advisories. Just some high cirrus clouds
streaming in from the east as they get pulled into the upper
ridge/anticyclone building just to our west. Guidance is hinting
at some fog development out east, mainly across the east end of
Long Island and southeast CT after midnight through day break.
Updated to include mention of patchy fog. Otherwise, it will be
muggy and very warm tonight with lows mostly in the 70s. The NYC
metro and urban NE NJ corridor may struggle to fall below 80
degrees. 

&&

.SHORT TERM /6 AM TUESDAY MORNING THROUGH TUESDAY NIGHT/...
A ridge continues to amplify aloft under light westerly flow. This 
westerly flow may aid in slightly lower dewpoint temperatures, but 
temperatures will be warmer, overall. Given the ridge continues to 
amplify, the current thinking is dewpoints won't mix that 
efficiently. 

Extreme Heat Warning remain in effect for most areas through 
Tuesday evening. A Heat Advisory tonight will be upgraded to a 
warning for Nassau county, western Suffolk county, and southern 
Middlesex county given higher expected dewpoints and 
temperatures than previously forecast. A Heat Advisory remains 
through Tuesday evening NE Suffolk county. A Heat Advisory will 
be added to SE Suffolk County, given heat indices will exceed 95
tomorrow and already reached this threshold today. 

Highs tomorrow will exceed what was reached today, in the upper-90s 
to 102 in most locations. The peak heat will again peak around 105-
110 for most locations.

&&

.LONG TERM /WEDNESDAY THROUGH MONDAY/...
Key points  

* Extreme heat may continue into Wednesday. Chances for heat indices 
  near 105 are near 30 percent for NYC, NE NJ, Lower Hudson Valley 
  and interior Southern CT. Otherwise, heat indices near 95 to 100 
  are more likely.

* Marginal flood and severe thunderstorm threat late Wednesday
  into Thursday. Higher PWATs, higher low level instability key
  factors as well as increasing shear aloft as upper level
  westerlies push south.

* Heat wave breaks Thursday into start of the weekend. Humidity 
  levels will be a little lower.

Large mid level ridge will be partially suppressed mid 
to late week. At the surface, a weakening cold front approaches from 
the north Wednesday and moves into the region. Models exhibit a 
small negative pressure tendency during the day. Model 850mb 
temperatures closer to 19 to 20 degrees C during the day, a few 
degrees lower than the previous 2 days. This appears to be the last 
significant heat day for this particular heat event. A blend of MAV 
and MET MOS with the NBM used for the forecast conveys a range of 
temperatures from the upper 80s to upper 90s across the region. With 
winds being relatively weak with weakness in the pressure gradient, 
dewpoints are going to remain relatively constant. Max heat indices 
forecast are near 95 to 100 across much of the region, making for 
heat advisory type of heat alert potential for subsequent forecasts 
if values remain generally the same. Subsequent max heat index 
forecasts may reach closer to 105 for some areas if temperatures
trend slightly higher.

Quasi-zonal flow in mid levels Thursday through early next week. At 
the surface, the weak frontal boundary remains near the region with 
a wave of low pressure developing along it. This wave of low 
pressure approaches Wednesday night into Thursday. Showers and 
thunderstorms return to the forecast, more probable by Wednesday 
night and into Thursday. Flow becomes more easterly in the low
levels, allowing for more of a maritime, relatively cooler
airmass.

Unsettled weather pattern remains thereafter through much of the 
rest of the forecast period with the frontal boundary nearby. More 
weak waves of low pressure potentially develop and approach the 
region along the boundary. This will keep rain showers in the 
forecast with occasional thunderstorms possible as well. Warm 
front moving north early next week.

Forecast high temperatures more in the 80s Thursday and more in the 
70s Friday with a slight rebound back into low to mid 80s for some 
areas Saturday. Upward trend in temperatures well into the 80s
for max temperatures for much of the area to close out the 
weekend on Sunday as well as for next Monday.

&&

.AVIATION /03Z TUESDAY THROUGH SATURDAY/...
High pressure remains in control through Tuesday night.

Mainly VFR through the TAF period. There is a low chance for 
MVFR-IFR visibilities from around 06-11z at KGON.

Winds will continue diminishing with light and variable flow 
overnight. A light WNW-NW flow develops after sunrise Tuesday. 
SW sea breezes are likely at coastal CT terminals by mid morning
and KJFK and Long Island terminals by mid afternoon. Otherwise,
the flow will become W in the late morning/early afternoon. 
Wind speeds should increase to around 10 kt. A few gusts to 20 
kt possible, especially where the flow remains W in the 
afternoon. 

 ...NY Metro (KEWR/KLGA/KJFK/KTEB) TAF Uncertainty... 

Timing of SW sea breeze Tuesday afternoon at KJFK may be off by
1-3 hours. The wind direction could also vary more to the S 
with the sea breeze. 

Gusts Tuesday afternoon may be occasional at KEWR/KTEB and are 
also possible at KLGA. 

.OUTLOOK FOR 00Z WEDNESDAY THROUGH SATURDAY... 

Tuesday Night: VFR.

Wednesday: Mainly VFR. A chance of showers and thunderstorms late 
day and night.

Thursday: MVFR or lower and showers/thunderstorms possible.

Friday: MVFR or lower possible. Chance of showers, possibly a 
thunderstorm. E wind gusts 15-20 kt.

Saturday: Mainly VFR. Showers possible and a chance of a 
thunderstorm.

Detailed information, including hourly TAF wind component forecasts, 
can be found at: https:/www.weather.gov/zny/n90

&&

.MARINE...
Sub-SCA conditions are expected through Tuesday night across 
all of the forecast waters.

For the marine long term Wednesday through Saturday night, without a 
steep pressure gradient, conditions on all forecast waters are 
forecast to remain below SCA thresholds.

&&

.HYDROLOGY...
Heavy rain possible with any thunderstorms Wednesday through 
Thursday night. PWATS with airmass potentially getting to excess of 
2 inches. Minor flooding possible especially for low lying, poor 
drainage and urban areas. Spatial variability of rainfall 
accumulation will be likely due to convective nature of the rain.

&&

.TIDES/COASTAL FLOODING...
There is the potential for minor coastal flooding during the 
nighttime high tide cycles this week. This is due to high 
astronomical tides associated with a new moon on June 25. There 
is little wind forcing at this time to produce much surge.

Shoreline areas that could have some minor coastal flooding
around the times of high tide include the South Shore Bays,
Western LI Sound, and portions of the Lower NY Harbor. Through
midweek, assessing surge model guidance, minor coastal flooding
would be isolated, potential for coastal flood statements to
address this. This is because of the light onshore winds. Also,
limiting this too is the lack of fetch with the variation of
surface wind direction.

For Wednesday night through Thursday night, winds become more
easterly, allowing for greater piling up of water. Surge model
guidance indicates a greater surge potentially here with more
sites exceeding minor coastal flood benchmarks. Stevens
indicates low possibility of reaching moderate coastal flooding
for some South Shore Bays but most of the guidance is within
minor level of coastal flooding. The Thursday night high tide
cycle looks to be the more problematic one where minor coastal
flooding could be more widespread, with advisory potential to
address this coastal flood potential.

Regarding rip currents, went with a moderate risk of rip
currents at all ocean beaches Tuesday with greater onshore flow
between 10-15 kts and some lingering onshore long period swell
of 1 ft. Waves expected to remain near 2 to 3 ft. Winds lower
Wednesday and with less onshore long period swell influence,
went with low risk of rip currents at Suffolk County Long 
Island beaches where winds will be weaker. With relatively 
higher onshore surface winds expected at the NYC and Nassau 
County ocean beaches, went with a moderate risk of rip currents 
there for Wednesday.

&&

.CLIMATE...
Increasing heat may result in record high temperatures on
Tuesday.

Tuesday's Record Highs (June 24):
EWR  97 / 1966
BDR  94 / 1966
NYC  96 / 1888
LGA  96 / 2013
JFK  97 / 2010
ISP  96 / 1966

&&

.OKX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CT...Extreme Heat Warning until 8 PM EDT Tuesday for CTZ005>010.
     Air Quality Alert until 11 PM EDT this evening for CTZ005>012.
     Air Quality Alert from 11 AM to 11 PM EDT Tuesday for 
     CTZ006>008-010>012.
     Heat Advisory until 6 AM EDT Tuesday for CTZ011.
     Extreme Heat Warning from 6 AM to 8 PM EDT Tuesday for CTZ011.
     Heat Advisory until 8 PM EDT Tuesday for CTZ012.
NY...Extreme Heat Warning until 8 PM EDT Tuesday for NYZ067>075-176-
     178.
     Air Quality Alert until 11 PM EDT this evening for NYZ069>075-
     078>081-176>179.
     Air Quality Alert from 11 AM to 11 PM EDT Tuesday for 
     NYZ069>075-078>081-176>179.
     Heat Advisory until 6 AM EDT Tuesday for NYZ078-080-177-179.
     Extreme Heat Warning from 6 AM to 8 PM EDT Tuesday for NYZ078-
     080-177-179.
     Heat Advisory until 8 PM EDT Tuesday for NYZ079.
     Heat Advisory from 6 AM to 8 PM EDT Tuesday for NYZ081.
NJ...Extreme Heat Warning until 8 PM EDT Tuesday for NJZ002-004-006-
     103>108.
     Air Quality Alert until 11 PM EDT this evening for NJZ002-004-
     006-103>108.
     Air Quality Alert from 11 AM to 11 PM EDT Tuesday for NJZ004-
     006-103>108.
MARINE...None.

&&

$$

SYNOPSIS...JM/BR
NEAR TERM...BR/DS
SHORT TERM...BR
LONG TERM...JM
AVIATION...DS
MARINE...JM/BR
HYDROLOGY...JM/BR
TIDES/COASTAL FLOODING...
CLIMATE...
