618 
FXUS61 KOKX 310640
AFDOKX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service New York NY
240 AM EDT Mon Mar 31 2025

.SYNOPSIS...
A warm front lifts north of the area into early this morning. 
Low pressure consolidates just north of the Canadian border 
during Monday and drags a pair of cold fronts through Monday 
night and Tuesday morning. High pressure builds in through 
Wednesday, then a frontal system quickly works into the region 
on Thursday, potentially stalling near the area through the 
weekend.

&&

.NEAR TERM /UNTIL 6 AM THIS MORNING/...
The warm front is moving slowly northward and has moved north of
the western ocean buoys. The front may hang up a bit as it 
reaches the area before getting a boost to the north of the area
around or shortly after day break. A LLJ will ramp up, 
especially across Long Island and southern CT.

The main concern for the rest of the night will be low clouds
and potential fog development. As the warm front draws closer,
visibilities should begin lowering. However, confidence is low
on whether the fog becomes dense or remains somewhere between
1/2sm-3sm.

Once the warm front lifts north of a specific area, winds will
shift from the E-NE to the S and could even become gusty. This
is most likely along the coast late tonight. Temperatures will
also begin rising late tonight.

Outside of rain showers moving northeast across parts of SE
Connecticut, not much coverage in showers expected rest of
tonight.

&&

.SHORT TERM /6 AM THIS MORNING THROUGH 6 PM TUESDAY/...
The warm front lifts north during the morning. The cloud deck 
overall should gradually lift some, with cloudy skies remaining with 
a strong warm advection pattern ensuing. Some guidance is suggesting 
that fog may attempt to stick around a little longer than 
anticipated for Monday morning. A difficult call since this time of 
year regarding the warm sector as it can get rather complicated with 
advection off the colder ocean. A strong synoptic gradient will be 
in place with a S to SSW flow regime, thus overall expecting the 
lowest clouds to break and dissipate. A few showers from time to 
time are on the table through the early afternoon, but it may 
actually not be raining much of the time. Most of the forcing will 
reside west of the area through a good portion of the day. It really 
shouldn't be until later in the afternoon that showers should become 
more widespread with scattered shower activity beginning to fill in 
with higher moisture values and higher PWATs advecting in. By late 
in the day and evening PWAT values begin to climb into the 1.25 to 
1.50 inch range. SPC has placed far western portions of the area in 
a Slight Risk of severe weather, with a marginal risk into the NYC 
metro. With the forcing ramping up CAM guidance indicates a 
potential squall line by early evening for the western part of the 
area which would likely weaken as it encounters maritime dominated 
air as it gets further east. Despite overall CAPE being limited, 
some stronger wind gusts cannot be ruled out (especially west of the 
NYC metro) with any convection that can get going for the evening. 
Overall, the convection should allow some embedded heavier shower 
activity to pivot through the region. With the southerly flow off 
the ocean for the eastern 2/3rds of the CWA, it may be difficult to 
get stronger gusts down to the surface with what is left of any low 
level inversion and the maritime influence. Rainfall totals should 
be in the 0.7 to 1.4 inch range across the area with WPC maintaining 
a Marginal Risk of excessive rainfall. See the hydrology section for 
further details.

The shower activity and any convection will get further east by the 
late evening and overnight as the cold front begins to pivot into 
and through the area. The winds immediately behind the boundary will 
switch to the NW. This should take place for the NYC metro towards 
or shortly after midnight. The NW flow picks up into the Tuesday AM 
commute as a secondary cold front pivots through early.

Low pressure exits further off the NE coast as high pressure builds 
on Tuesday. A N to NNW flow regime ushers in drier air. A seasonable 
day temperature wise with mainly middle 50s as full sunshine 
develops. Chose to stick close to NBM guidance temp wise as the flow 
will be more northerly as opposed to westerly, thus temperatures 
should not get too much above guidance with less overall adiabatic 
compression / warming.

&&

.LONG TERM /TUESDAY NIGHT THROUGH SUNDAY/...
Dry wx Tue ngt thru the day on Wed with high pres building in. Temps 
Tue ngt still on track for 20s and 30s, although the NBM has trended 
up slightly for cstl areas, likely due to nly flow thru the ngt 
minimizing the radiational cooling potential. 

Increasing clouds Wed with a warm front approaching. Chances for 
shwrs Wed ngt as the theta-e ridge builds in. There could be some 
fog and dz as well, but kept out for now in case the front stalls S 
of the area before jumping nwd Thu mrng.

Warm sectored on Thu, with areas W of the Hudson the warmest, 
possibly 20 degrees or so warmer than Montauk. Went with the blended 
approach for rain chances per the NBM, but these numbers may end up 
a bit high if the cdfnt remains too far W as the 12Z GFS suggests. 

As the main upr lvl energy with the sys ejects into Canada, the 
residual boundary looks to meander over the area right thru the 
weekend, at times S of the area, at times over the area. The fcst is 
NBM pops meaning chances for shwrs thru the period. The 12Z ECMWF 
and GFS suggest this pattern wipes out around next Mon with a strong 
upr low dropping down out of Canada.

&&

.AVIATION /06Z MONDAY THROUGH FRIDAY/...
A warm front eventually moves across the terminals through early
today. This will be followed by a cold front for tonight.

Mainly LIFR to localized VLIFR conditions are expected until
daybreak. The increase in winds is expected to slightly improve
conditions for this morning, but still expect mainly LIFR to IFR
conditions. Most visibilities this morning are expected to be
more IFR to MVFR with the increased wind. Further improvement to
MVFR expected for the afternoon into evening for most terminals
except for CT terminals and KISP, which are expected to maintain
at best IFR conditions. 

Showers will not have much coverage to start going into early
today but do expect the shower coverage to increase from west to
east by mid to late this afternoon. Showers are expected for all
terminals for the first half of tonight and for NYC terminals as
well as terminals to the north and west, there is a chance of
thunderstorms around 23Z to 03Z.

Post cold front tonight, improvement to MVFR expected for all 
terminals with some rain showers lingering around.

Winds initially variable for most terminals at or less than 5
kts, eventually becoming more southerly near 5-10 kt. S-SW winds
increase late this morning into this afternoon to near 12-15 kt
with gusts 20-25 kt. Winds eventually transition to NW after the
cold front tonight. 

Low level jet already in place with SW winds of 40-50 kt at
2kft. This low level wind shear is forecast to persist for the
rest of this morning into early this afternoon.


 ...NY Metro (KEWR/KLGA/KJFK/KTEB) TAF Uncertainty... 
Amendments likely to refine timing of categorical changes as 
well as timing of thunderstorms.

Amendments likely to refine timing of SW to NW wind direction 
changes such as with the cold front.

Brief VLIFR possible early this morning.


.OUTLOOK FOR 06Z TUESDAY THROUGH FRIDAY...

Late Tonight: SW winds shift to the NW overnight and become 
gusty near 20-25 kt. Peak gusts up to 30 kt possible.

Tuesday: MVFR possible early with low chance of rain showers.
Otherwise VFR. NW wind gusts around 20-25 kt during the day.

Wednesday: Mainly VFR during the day. MVFR or lower possible at
night with a chance of showers. SE wind gusts 15-20 kt afternoon
into evening.

Thursday: MVFR or lower possible with a chance of showers,
eventually becoming likely at night. SW wind gusts 15-20kt, 
highest along the coast day into evening.

Friday: MVFR or lower possible early with a chance of showers.
Mainly VFR afternoon and at night.

Detailed information, including hourly TAF wind component forecasts, 
can be found at: https:/www.weather.gov/zny/n90

&&

.MARINE...
A marine dense fog advisory is in effect for tonight into Monday
morning for reduces visibilities in areas of fog.

A southerly flow picks up during the overnight out on the ocean
as seas begin to climb resulting in small craft conditions 
developing, with far eastern LI Sound approaching small craft 
conditions towards day break. The non-ocean waters then go to 
small craft by mid to late morning on Monday. Other than a brief
lull in conditions with a wind switch from S-SW to NW Monday 
night, small craft conditions resume by Tuesday morning on a NW 
wind. Small craft gusts to around 25 kt will take shape on all 
waters on Tuesday, along with elevated seas out on the ocean.

Small craft conditions may linger for the majority of the time on 
the ocean Tue ngt thru Fri. Elsewhere, SCA winds possible Wed ngt 
and Thu behind a warm frontal passage.

&&

.HYDROLOGY...
Showers with embedded thunderstorms are expected late Monday
afternoon through Monday night. The main concern will be 
some localized minor nuisance / poor drainage urban type 
flooding.

No hydrologic impacts are expected for the remainder of the period, 
Tue-Sun.

&&

.TIDES/COASTAL FLOODING...
Astronomical levels are high with recent new moon. This combined
with continuous easterly flow has built up water levels. High
tide has largely passed for the vulnerable locations across the
back back bays and Lower Harbor. Most spots just touched minor
benchmarks or just fell short. Have cancelled the statements
across eastern Long Island as water levels will remain below
minor flood stage. The Advisory remains for coastal Fairfield
and coastal Westchester where minor benchmarks will likely be
exceeded by several tenths of a foot. Statements remain for 
coastal New Haven, Bronx, and northern Queens for only 
localized minor tonight. 

Additional minor coastal flooding is possible around the times
of high tide Monday night.

&&

.OKX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CT...Coastal Flood Advisory until 3 AM EDT early this morning for 
     CTZ009.
NY...Coastal Flood Advisory until 3 AM EDT early this morning for 
     NYZ071.
NJ...None.
MARINE...Dense Fog Advisory until 11 AM EDT this morning for ANZ331-332-
     335-338-340-345-350-353-355.
     Small Craft Advisory from 9 AM this morning to 6 AM EDT 
     Tuesday for ANZ331-335-338-340-345.
     Small Craft Advisory from 6 AM this morning to 6 AM EDT 
     Tuesday for ANZ332.
     Small Craft Advisory until 6 AM EDT Tuesday for ANZ350-353-355.

&&

$$

SYNOPSIS...JMC/JE
NEAR TERM...JE/DS/JM
SHORT TERM...JE
LONG TERM...JMC
AVIATION...JM
MARINE...JMC/JE
HYDROLOGY...JMC/JE
TIDES/COASTAL FLOODING...
