308 
FXUS61 KOKX 161441
AFDOKX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service New York NY
941 AM EST Thu Jan 16 2025

.SYNOPSIS...
A weakening frontal system approaches from the west today and 
passes through the area tonight. High pressure will then briefly
return for Friday. Another frontal system passes through on 
Saturday. Thereafter, frontal waves move by the area Sunday into
the beginning of next week. A strong arctic high pressure 
system builds into the area through the middle of next week.

&&

.NEAR TERM /THROUGH TONIGHT/...
Forecast on track. 

An amplifying upper trough over the Great Lakes this morning 
will move into the area later this afternoon and into the night.
No change with the thinking for snow showers with this 
disturbance, which may begin as early as this afternoon across 
western portions of the Lower Hudson Valley and interior NE NJ, 
then across the remainder of the area this evening. The highest 
probability remains across eastern LI as the upper trough taps 
in on more moisture and also aids the development of weak low 
pressure to the south. Liquid equivalent amounts for this event
are forecast to be light with mainly a couple of hundredths of 
an inch or less, except a bit more possible across eastern LI. 
Looking for the potential of a light coating of snowfall with 
as much as an inch across the twin forks of LI. After daytime 
highs today in the upper 20s inland to the lower 30s at the 
coast, whatever does fall should accumulate. Any lingering snow 
shower activity will then come to an by early morning (2-3 am) 
across far eastern locations. Lows by daybreak Friday will be 
mainly in the 20s with a few upper teens inland.

Probabilities of seeing greater than 0.1" of snowfall tonight 
with the GEFS, GEPS, and EPS are all highest across eastern LI 
and in most cases 70-90 percent. The NBM is only about 30 percent
and the HREF is about 50-70 percent across all of LI/SE CT. 
However, once you bump up to greater than 0.5"of snowfall,  
probabilities fall of dramatically. In addition, areas north 
and west the probabilities are very low for greater than 0.1" 
of snowfall with the exception of far western portions of Orange
County NY. Thus, this all points to a light snowfall event.

&&

.SHORT TERM /FRIDAY THROUGH SATURDAY/...
For Friday, a ridge of high pressure aloft and at the surface
moves across the area. It will be warmer with highs in the upper
30s to around 40 with a light westerly flow. This will be 
short-lived with a fast upper flow in the northern branch of 
the polar jet. The next amplifying trough over central Canada 
and the northern plains will race east, sending a frontal system
toward the area on Saturday with the associated cold front 
passing through at night. Rain showers will break out across the
area Saturday afternoon. There is a possibility that snow could
briefly mix in at the onset across the higher elevations well 
north and west of the area. No accumulation is expected with 
temperatures getting into the 40s. Southerly winds in the afternoon
may gust 20 to 25 mph, highest along the coast. Rainfall amounts
of a 0.25" or less are expected with the highest across far 
eastern LI and SE CT.

&&

.LONG TERM /SATURDAY NIGHT THROUGH WEDNESDAY/...
The cold front pushes through the area Saturday night with a weak 
central low pressure wave developing along the front, off the Mid-
Atlantic coast. The center of this low looks to pass south and east 
of the area into Sunday morning with mainly dry condition expected 
through the first half of the day. By Sunday afternoon, a secondary 
low pressure system develops downstream of a mid-level shortwave 
swinging around the base of the trough which is positioned over the 
Great Lakes. Guidance has come into better agreement that this low 
pressure system looks to remain fairly weak and once again pass 
south and east of the area through Sunday night into early Monday. 
The ECMWF and GFS have portions of the area being impacted by the 
northern edge of the precipitation shield with the potential for 
some light snow, mainly for the coastal areas. The CMC has 
consistently showed a stronger low that approaches the coastline, 
resulting in more widespread precipitation with rain along the coast 
and a mix of rain and snow inland. Opted to keep PoPs at a high end 
chance (40-50 percent) with a chance of rain and snow showers for 
much of the coast to account for the uncertainty.

The low moves northeast of the area by the afternoon on Monday with 
a strong arctic high pressure system building into the center of the 
US. This high pressure will gradually build eastward through the 
middle of the week but will make for gusty NW flow with a relatively 
tight pressure gradient over the area. Persistent CAA is expected 
through the week with winds 10-20 mph and gusts upwards of 25-30 
mph. This CAA and high pressure will allow for temperatures to drop 
dramatically into midweek. High temperatures Monday will be only in 
the middle to upper 20s. Highs by Tuesday will be in the teens with 
the coast possible approaching 20 degrees. Lows will be in the 
single digits Monday and Tuesday night with temperatures slowly 
moderating later in the week.

&&

.AVIATION /15Z THURSDAY THROUGH MONDAY/...
High pressure gradually moves offshore today. A frontal system 
approaches from the west this afternoon and moves offshore 
tonight. High pressure builds back in for Friday.

VFR conditions expected through this afternoon. A few snow 
showers are possible this evening, and have a PROB30 to 
highlight this potential, along with MVFR cigs and vsbys. Little
to no accumulation expected. Brief IFR conds can't be ruled 
out, generally between 22Z and 03Z Fri or so. Drying out 
thereafter into Friday morning.

Light west flow this morning, then SW into the afternoon. Gusts
toward 20 kt may return at some terminals this afternoon, 
though also may be more occasional. Winds veer westerly again 
tonight, then NW into early Friday morning.

 ...NY Metro (KEWR/KLGA/KJFK/KTEB) TAF Uncertainty... 

Gusts this afternoon may be more occasional.

Snow shower timing this evening may be off by an hour or two. Brief 
IFR conds possible.

.OUTLOOK FOR 12Z FRIDAY THROUGH MONDAY...

Friday: Mainly VFR.

Saturday: MVFR or lower at times with rain likely, possible snow at 
night. SW wind gusts 15-20 kt during the day.

Sunday: Chance for MVFR or lower at times with increasing chances of 
snow, with rain/snow mix for coastal terminals day into early 
evening.

Monday: Mainly VFR. Possible snow early with MVFR or lower possible. 
NW wind gusts near 20 kt.

Detailed information, including hourly TAF wind component forecasts, 
can be found at: https:/www.weather.gov/zny/n90

&&

.MARINE...
Sub-SCA conditions are forecast across the waters through 
Friday night before a frontal system approaches on Saturday. 
Southerly winds ahead of the associated cold front will likely 
bring SCA conditions to the ocean waters with seas building to 
4 to 6 ft and wind gusts up to 30 kt. 

Seas around 5 ft may linger into Saturday evening, but sub-SCA 
conditions are expected shortly thereafter on all waters Saturday
night. Waves then build on the ocean Sunday afternoon bringing 
SCA through at least Monday night. For the non-ocean zones, wind
gusts near 20 kt should result in generally sub-SCA conditions 
during this timeframe, but stray gusts to near or over 25kt 
can't be entirely ruled out.

Persistent winds above 15 kt with a frigid airmass in place may 
result in the potential for freezing spray, especially on the ocean 
where wave heights will be more elevated, as early as Sunday night 
and continuing into the day on Monday.

&&

.HYDROLOGY...
No hydrologic impacts are expected into the middle of next 
week.

&&

.OKX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CT...None.
NY...None.
NJ...None.
MARINE...None.

&&

$$

SYNOPSIS...DW/MW
NEAR TERM...DS/DW
SHORT TERM...DW
LONG TERM...MW
AVIATION...MET/MW
MARINE...DW/MW
HYDROLOGY...DW/MW
