251 
FXUS61 KOKX 131527
AFDOKX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service New York NY
1127 AM EDT Fri Jun 13 2025

.SYNOPSIS...
A cold front stalls just south of the waters on today. A weak 
low rides along the boundary late tonight and tracks south and 
east of Long Island early on Saturday. High pressure off the New
England coast tries to build towards the area Sunday. Next week
starts out with high pressure southeast of Nova Scotia and a 
stalled front south of the region. Multiple waves of low 
pressure move along the front and near the area through Tuesday 
night. Eventually a stronger low pressure system develops and 
allows for a warm front to lift north of the region Wednesday 
with an associated cold front approaching towards the end of 
next week.

&&

.NEAR TERM /UNTIL 6 PM THIS EVENING/...
Based on latest CAMs and upper air soundings have removed
mention of isolated convection today. There does not look to be
deep enough lift to get a parcel buoyant today. Cold front will
also continue to work farther south of the area today. 

Temperatures will be closer to normal today being on the cool
side of the boundary, with highs ranging from the middle 70s to
around 80.

&&

.SHORT TERM /6 PM THIS EVENING THROUGH SUNDAY NIGHT/...
Low pressure is expected to form along the frontal boundary
tonight over the mid-Atlantic states and track northeast along
the boundary into Saturday morning, being located somewhere
south of Long Island by late morning Saturday into Saturday
afternoon. A period of moderate to briefly heavy rain is
possible during this time frame, especially as PWAT values
increase to 1.50" to 2.00". The ECMWF and NAM are the most 
bullish on rainfall, with over an inch expected during this 12 
hour period, mainly across Long Island. Think that these values 
are too high and may be suffering from convective feedback 
issues. Tried to come to some sort of consensus among the 
models, and have a storm total ranging from a tenth of an inch 
(southwest CT) to just over half an inch (NYC and Long Island) 
from late tonight through the day Saturday. Localized amounts of
inch are possible given aforementioned PWAT values, but 
flooding is not expected at this time. The most likely outcome 
would be minor nuisance and poor drainage flooding, mainly for 
Long Island.

Rain tapers off Saturday afternoon and into Saturday night as
high pressure from southern Canada builds in. Unsettled pattern
continues for Sunday as another area of low pressure forms near
the Ohio river Valley and heads east. As it heads east, the 
front edge of the precipitation field may affect western and 
souther portions of the forecast area late Sunday into Sunday 
night, however precipitation is not expected to be as widespread
as compared to Saturday.

With rain and clouds expected for Saturday and Sunday,
temperatures are expected to run below normal for this time of
year. Highs are not expected to climb out of the 60s. Lows will
be in the 50s to around 60.

&&

.LONG TERM /MONDAY THROUGH THURSDAY/...
Main upper level jet stays north of the region for the time period 
of next week Monday through Thursday night. The main upper level 
westerlies get relatively close, not that far north of the region 
Wednesday into Wednesday night with a shortwave trough passing north 
of the region. The westerlies increase again late in the week when a 
stronger shortwave approaches the region.

At the surface, high pressure southeast of Nova Scotia gradually 
weakens Monday into Monday night. One wave of low pressure passes 
well south of the region along the stalled front Monday into Monday 
night. Another wave of low pressure passes south of the area 
along the front Tuesday night into early Wednesday. 

For Monday through early Wednesday, unsettled weather pattern 
remains with chances of showers and cooler than normal temperatures. 
Monday is forecast to be well below normal once again as highs only 
near 70 are expected for much of the region. Highs forecast on 
Tuesday warm up but are still a few degrees below normal, mostly mid 
to upper 70s. Surface winds transition from being more easterly 
Monday to more southerly Tuesday.

Eventually by mid week, stronger trough in the Central US shifts the 
pattern for the local area downstream as a stronger low pressure 
system develops. The frontal boundary eventually lifts back north on 
Wednesday as a warm front. The warm front eventually lifts north of 
the region Wednesday night and then the local area will be fully in 
a warm sector Thursday. Meanwhile, an associated cold front will be 
approaching from the west. 

Increasing SE to S winds Wednesday and SW winds Thursday will 
increase low level warm air advection. Temperature continue on their 
rising trend Wednesday into Thursday. Dewpoints will be on the rise 
as well. Airmass will be getting more warm and humid. Max 
temperatures WEdnesday are upper 70s to lower 80s for most locations 
and 80s to near 90 for much of the region on Thursday. Those max 
temperatures near 90 Thursday are within parts of NYC and Northeast 
NJ as well as Lower Hudson Valley with corresponding heat indices 
reaching low to mid 90s.

Chances for showers remain Wednesday through Thursday but 
thunderstorms will be possible as well with the increasing low level 
instability from the greater surface warmth. Some thunderstorms 
could be strong especially with the approach of the cold front when 
more shear with those greater westerlies could enable even for a few 
severe thunderstorms with enough shear and CAPE.

There is uncertainty with model locations and fronts and even more 
uncertainty with timing of convection. Therefore exact and refined 
time windows for showers and thunderstorms will be difficult to 
determine at this time.

&&

.AVIATION /15Z FRIDAY THROUGH TUESDAY/...
A cold front will stall south of the region with an area of low 
pressure developing and approaching along it for the TAF period.

VFR conditions expected through this evening. MVFR is expected to 
hold off, with higher chances later in the overnight into Saturday. 
A brief shower or thunderstorm possible today into this evening. 
Chances for showers increase late tonight, becoming likely overnight 
into Saturday. IFR will be possible as well, especially Saturday 
morning.

Winds become more E to SE during the day and increase to near 10 kts 
this afternoon. Winds will be easterly tonight and become more 
northeasterly Saturday. The winds decrease to near 5 to 8 kts 
tonight into early Saturday but will be variable direction for some 
terminals outside of NYC.

     NY Metro (KEWR/KLGA/KJFK/KTEB) TAF Uncertainty...

An brief isolated shower or thunderstorm is possible today into this 
evening. Too much uncertainty with timing and location to put in 
TAFs with very low confidence of occurrence.


.OUTLOOK FOR 12Z SATURDAY THROUGH TUESDAY... 

Saturday: MVFR to IFR with chance of showers. Occasional NE wind 
gusts 15-20 kt possible.

Saturday night: Lowering chances of showers. MVFR to IFR possible.

Sunday: Chance of showers. Slight chance of a thunderstorm afternoon 
into early evening. MVFR to IFR possible at times. Otherwise VFR.

Monday: Chance of showers. MVFR to IFR possible at times. Otherwise 
VFR.

Tuesday: Mainly VFR.

Detailed information, including hourly TAF wind component forecasts, 
can be found at: https:/www.weather.gov/zny/n90

&&

.MARINE...
Sub advisory conditions are anticipated for all waters through the 
first half of the weekend. Ocean seas generally hold at 2 to 4 
ft with a relaxed pressure gradient and a light onshore flow.
Marginal SCA seas are possible for the central and eastern ocean
zones late Saturday night into Sunday morning. 

For the long term marine forecast, conditions are forecast to remain 
below SCA thresholds on all waters Monday through Tuesday night. The 
pressure gradient on average is expected to remain weak allowing for 
relatively less wind and thereby less amplitude waves.

&&

.HYDROLOGY...
A tenth to just over a half inch of rainfall is expected from 
tonight through Saturday. Isolated amounts over an inch are 
possible, especially across Long Island. There is the potential
for moderate to briefly heavy rain, but no flooding is expected
at this time. The most likely outcome would be minor nuisance 
flooding. 

No hydrologic impacts expected Monday and Tuesday. Thunderstorms mid 
to late next week will be capable of producing locally heavy 
downpours and thereby minor flooding of low lying, poor drainage and 
urban areas.

&&

.TIDES/COASTAL FLOODING...
The rip current risk is low on Friday with a light easterly 
flow and limited swell. There is a moderate rip current risk on 
Saturday with increasing easterly flow and building seas 3 to 4 
ft.

&&

.OKX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CT...None.
NY...None.
NJ...Air Quality Alert until 11 PM EDT this evening for NJZ002-004-
     006-103>108.
MARINE...None.

&&

$$

SYNOPSIS...JM/JP
NEAR TERM...JP/DW
SHORT TERM...JP
LONG TERM...JM
AVIATION...JE
MARINE...JM/JP
HYDROLOGY...JM/JP
TIDES/COASTAL FLOODING...
