230 
FXUS61 KOKX 132354
AFDOKX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service New York NY
754 PM EDT Fri Jun 13 2025

.SYNOPSIS...
A frontal wave will pass to the south late tonight into Saturday.
Behind it, high pressure builds in from the northeast Saturday 
night into Sunday. Weak high pressure will be in place through 
Wednesday, with a warm front lifting north through the area by 
Thursday, followed by a cold front Thursday night.

&&

.NEAR TERM /THROUGH SATURDAY/...
A confluent flow between the northern and southern branches of 
the polar jet will be featured across the Northeast. This will 
allow high pressure to build across eastern Canada and into the 
Northeast. To the south across the northern Mid Atlantic 
states, a frontal wave will move offshore late tonight into 
Saturday, passing south of the area. The latter of which will 
bring showers areawide tonight and a possible thunderstorm,but 
mainly after midnight into Saturday morning. There will be some 
elevated instability, but mainly across the southern half of the
forecast area. With PW values approaching 2 inches, any embedded
convection could produce brief heavy rainfall. Otherwise, the 
system is rather disjointed and will transition to some light 
rain by Saturday afternoon. High pressure and drying conditions 
will work in from the north as high pressure builds behind the 
departing low.

Expected rainfall amounts late tonight into Saturday will be 
between 0.25 and 0.50 inches. Stayed close to an NBM/WPC 
consenus. Right now, not buying into some of the higher amounts 
shown by the 12Z Canadian and ECMWF. 13Z NBM 50th percentile is 
0.3 to 0.4", with the mean a bit higher (skewed toward higher 
amounts). However, probability of greater than 0.75" is only 
15-25%. 

Overnight lows will be in the upper 50s to lowers 60s, which is 
nearly normal. However. due to the cloud cover, northeast flow, 
and rain, highs on Saturday will likely not climb out of the 
60s. This is more than 10 degrees below normal.

&&

.SHORT TERM /SATURDAY NIGHT THROUGH SUNDAY/...
High pressure noses in from the northeast Saturday night into
Sunday with only a slight chance of light rain during this time.
Model time height cross sections during this time show dry mid
levels with moisture confined to the low levels, mainly below 
700mb. In fact, while the forecast remains mostly cloudy during 
this time, it could very well remain dry through Father's Day 
and temperatures may be on the upper end of the guidance. 

For the time, expect lows in 50s Saturday night and highs in the
60s for Sunday. This is on the cool side.

&&

.LONG TERM /SUNDAY NIGHT THROUGH FRIDAY/...
A relatively zonal upper flow is anticipated through Wednesday night 
before it amplifies with a trough axis approaching Thursday night 
and passing through on Friday. This leads to weak surface high 
pressure over the region with a stalled boundary to our south. This 
boundary then becomes a warm front and advances north by Thursday 
with weak ridging aloft. A cold front then follows during Thursday 
night or possibly on Friday.

Highest chance of rainfall within the long term appears to be with 
the cold front passage, but there's uncertainty surrounding how 
probable it will be due to timing differences for the passage among 
the global models. A passage during the daytime Friday would 
probably bring a higher threat overall with a greater chance of 
heavy downpours as instability would be higher during the daytime. 
12z LREF leans toward the faster side of the guidance envelope with 
the h5 trough axis and attendant cold front. The cold front is 
therefore more likely to pass through during Thursday night, 
mitigating the potential for severe weather and flooding impacts. 
With that said, trends need to be watched so see if the frontal 
passage becomes more likely during the daytime on Thursday, or at 
the least, a prefrontal trough acting as a focus for convection. 

NBM was used for temperatures through the long term period. 
Thursday's high temperatures however may eventually need to be 
raised by at least 5 degrees given the progged h8 temperatures, but 
with the aforementioned convective uncertainty, have not adjusted 
from the NBM at this time. Heat impacts may factor in for some 
locations if it ends up being hotter than currently forecast, 
particularly away from the coast.

&&

.AVIATION /00Z SATURDAY THROUGH WEDNESDAY/...
A cold front will remain stalled south of the region as an area of 
low pressure develops and approaches along the front. The low exits 
towards the tail end of the TAF period.

VFR conditions expected through this evening and a portion of the 
overnight. MVFR is expected to hold off for the first half of the 
night, with higher chances late in the overnight mainly towards and 
after 08-09z and carrying into Saturday morning. Chances for showers 
increase late tonight, becoming likely early Saturday morning. The 
chances for IFR increase into Saturday morning, except for northern 
most terminals where MVFR is expected to prevail. SHowers are
expected to become much more widely scattered by 20Z so there 
may be some improvements back up to MVFR briefly into the late
afternoon with IFR becoming possible again after 00Z Sunday.

E to SE winds this evening around 10 kts, followed by the winds
going more easterly tonight. The winds then become more 
northeasterly Saturday. The winds decrease to near 5 to 8 kts 
tonight into early Saturday but will be variable in direction 
for some terminals outside of NYC. The winds increase closer to 
10 kt at most terminals during by midday.

     NY Metro (KEWR/KLGA/KJFK/KTEB) TAF Uncertainty...

Amendments may be needed later tonight into Saturday morning for 
changing flight categories.

.OUTLOOK FOR 00Z SUNDAY THROUGH WEDNESDAY... 

Saturday night: Lowering chances of showers. MVFR to IFR possible.

Sunday: Chance of showers. Slight chance of a thunderstorm afternoon 
into early evening. MVFR to IFR possible at times. Otherwise VFR.

Monday: Chance of showers. MVFR to IFR possible at times. Otherwise 
VFR.

Tuesday: Mainly VFR.

Wednesday: Mostly VFR, with the chance of a period of sub-VFR. 

Detailed information, including hourly TAF wind component forecasts, 
can be found at: https:/www.weather.gov/zny/n90

&&

.MARINE...
Sub advisory conditions are anticipated for all waters through the 
first half of the weekend. Ocean seas generally hold at 2 to 4 
ft with a relaxed pressure gradient and a light onshore flow.
Marginal SCA seas are possible for the central and eastern ocean
zones late Saturday night into Sunday morning. 

Sub-advisory conditions should otherwise continue through
Wednesday.

&&

.HYDROLOGY...
No hydrologic impacts expected through early next week.

Next chance for impacts would be Thursday into Thursday night with 
any thunderstorms that manage to develop in a moist airmass in 
place. There's high uncertainty this far out in time regarding the 
probability, timing and magnitude of any impacts with this.

&&

.TIDES/COASTAL FLOODING...
The rip current risk is low for the rest of today with a light 
easterly flow and limited swell. There is a moderate rip current 
risk on Saturday with an east to southeast swell.

&&

.OKX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CT...None.
NY...None.
NJ...Air Quality Alert until 11 PM EDT this evening for NJZ002-004-
     006-103>108.
MARINE...None.

&&

$$

SYNOPSIS...JC/DW
NEAR TERM...DW
SHORT TERM...DW
LONG TERM...JC
AVIATION...MW
MARINE...JC/DW
HYDROLOGY...JC/DW
TIDES/COASTAL FLOODING...
