684 
FXUS61 KOKX 251524
AFDOKX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service New York NY
1124 AM EDT Mon Aug 25 2025

.SYNOPSIS...
A cold front moves through and pushes offshore into this
evening. A weak secondary cold front pivots through late 
Tuesday and Tuesday night, otherwise high pressure gradually 
builds mid week. A frontal system approaches Friday and swings 
through to begin the weekend as high pressure settles in.

&&

.NEAR TERM /THROUGH TONIGHT/...
Cold front gradually works across the area into early this 
evening. A bit humid ahead of the boundary with dew points 
primarily in the mid 60s, and upper 60s further east for a good 
portion of the day. Radar observations and a couple MPING 
reports indicate isolated sprinkles or light rain around ahead 
of the front across southern CT or LI, but most should remain 
dry.

Otherwise, a seasonably warm day with a fair amount of sunshine
developing. Temperatures are relatively mild this afternoon, and 
likely the warmest day of the week ahead, with highs into the 
low to mid 80s. Boundary layer mixes above 750 mb, and should 
allow 20 to 25 mph gusts to develop by late afternoon.

For tonight look for somewhat less humid air to work in gradually. 
By the mid to late evening the drop in humidity should be more 
noticeable. The winds will be light out of the NW, with the winds 
even going calm in a lot of places late at night with an overall 
light synoptic gradient. A cooler night overall with mainly middle 
and upper 50s for minimum temperatures across the interior, and 
mainly lower half of the 60s elsewhere.

&&

.SHORT TERM /TUESDAY THROUGH WEDNESDAY/...
High pressure for the most part will build into the region for mid 
week. A weak secondary cold front / sfc trough is progged to pivot 
through late Tuesday into Tuesday evening. This will reinforce the 
drier less humid air already in place. Temperatures overall should 
average a few degrees below normal, especially night time 
temperatures as a mostly clear sky and light winds at night will
allow some radiational cooling in the non-urban areas. The only
adjustment to the NBM during this period was with respect to 
day time cloud cover for both Tuesday and Wednesday, along with 
a sprinkle / shower chance added for a portion of the day 
Wednesday. A long wave trough will work in over time and 
impulses in the mid and upper levels pivots through from time to
time. The dry weather regime will continue overall, but cannot 
completely rule out a few sprinkles or a brief shower on 
Wednesday with a cold pool aloft and cyclonic curvature in the 
mid levels. Otherwise fair skies overall, as the afternoons will
feature some cu development with the cooler air aloft, thus 
added some cloud cover from the NBM on Tuesday, and especially 
on Wednesday.

&&

.LONG TERM /WEDNESDAY NIGHT THROUGH SUNDAY/...
Key Points:

* Predominantly dry conditions expected through Thursday, with 
  low end shower chances Friday.

* Temperatures will be near to slightly below normal for the period. 

Decent model agreement on the mass fields / large scale features 
through the week with a series of upper troughs advecting through 
the northeast with little fanfare. High pressure at the surface 
slowly makes its way east from the Central Plains heading south of 
the area by late week. Thus, with the high off to the west, an 
offshore flow at the surface should prevail, and so expecting mainly 
dry and cooler conditions Tuesday through Thursday. The only 
adjustment with respect to the NBM was to add a bit more in terms of 
diurnal cloud cover with upper level cool pool / troughiness. Thus 
some afternoon cu cloud formation should be expected. For Wednesday 
a passing shower or some sprinkles cannot be ruled out with upper 
level disturbance pivoting through, but no real sensible wx impacts 
are anticipated. By Friday, an upper trough approaches from the west 
along with a weak cold front. Precipitation chances do increase 
through the day on Friday, but with better forcing to our north via 
the aforementioned upper trough, not anticipating much in the way of 
shower activity associated with the system at this point. 

The NBM was closely followed for this update.

&&

.AVIATION /15Z MONDAY THROUGH FRIDAY/...
A cold front slowly moves across the terminals today. High 
pressure builds in tonight into Tuesday.

Generally a VFR forecast. Occasional MVFR ceilings this morning,
mainly east of the NYC terminals. 

SSW to W winds this morning at 5 to 10 kt, increasing to 10 to
15 kt. There will be gusts to around 20 kt, but mainly at the 
the city terminals this afternoon. Hybrid seabreezes likely at
the coastal terminals with winds SSW. Winds will then veer 
around to the WNW this evening and diminish.

 ...NY Metro (KEWR/KLGA/KJFK/KTEB) TAF Uncertainty...

Winds may vary between SW and W this afternoon with the cold
front in close proximity. 

.OUTLOOK FOR 12Z TUESDAY THROUGH FRIDAY...

Tuesday - Friday: VFR.

Detailed information, including hourly TAF wind component forecasts, 
can be found at: https:/www.weather.gov/zny/n90

&&

.MARINE...
Sub small craft conditions prevail on the ocean through much of
the afternoon. Seas increase toward 5 ft late day as a east to 
southeast swell attempts to increase into this evening. Small 
Craft Advisory has been issued from 6 PM this evening through 6 
AM Tuesday.

Seas fall below small craft criteria on Tuesday with relatively
light winds and a weak pressure gradient overall as high 
pressure takes control through mid week. Other than noted above,
winds and waves are expected to remain below advisory criteria 
through the remainder of the week.

&&

.HYDROLOGY...
There are no hydrologic concerns this week.

&&

.TIDES/COASTAL FLOODING...
The high rip current risk continues through this evening with 3 to 5 
ft. surf with long period swells. However, for Tuesday the period 
decreases enough that the rip risk falls to moderate.

&&

.OKX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CT...None.
NY...High Risk for Rip Currents until 8 PM EDT this evening for NYZ075-
     080-081-178-179.
NJ...None.
MARINE...Small Craft Advisory from 6 PM this evening to 6 AM EDT 
     Tuesday for ANZ350-353-355.

&&

$$

SYNOPSIS...JE/DBR
NEAR TERM...JE/DR
SHORT TERM...JE
LONG TERM...JE/DBR
AVIATION...JP/DW
MARINE...JE/DBR
HYDROLOGY...JE/DBR
TIDES/COASTAL FLOODING...
