142 
FXUS61 KOKX 172320
AFDOKX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service New York NY
720 PM EDT Thu Jul 17 2025

.SYNOPSIS...
A cold front moves through the area tonight. High pressure 
builds in Friday then moves offshore during Saturday with a 
warm front moving to the north. A cold front moves through the 
area late Sunday. High pressure builds in for early next week. A
frontal boundary will be nearby for Wednesday and Thursday.

&&

.NEAR TERM /UNTIL 6 AM FRIDAY MORNING/...
A cold front associated with a low pressure passing to the 
north will push through this evening and overnight. Middle level
dry has prevented any convective development and not 
anticipating any activity this evening with the frontal passage.

The heat advisory remains in effect through 10 PM, but heat
indices should begin falling into the 80s and low 90s after
sunset. 

Winds will shift to the NW behind the front, allowing for a 
for a drier airmass and lowering of the dew points into the 
60s. This cold frontal passage will allow the hot and humid 
conditions to end. Lows tonight will be in the upper 60s to 
middle 70s with the warmest locations being along the coast and 
for the NYC Metro.

&&

.SHORT TERM /6 AM FRIDAY MORNING THROUGH FRIDAY NIGHT/...
By Friday, the area will be behind the departing cold front to the 
east. High pressure over the Great Lakes regions will gradually 
build into the area during the day Friday and into Friday night. 
This high pressure will keep the area dry with skies being mostly 
clear to partly cloudy. Highs will be in the low to middle 80s. 

Lower dew points into the low 60s to upper 50s will allow for
much more comfortable conditions. Lows Friday night will be able
to drop into the 60s for most with upper 50s possible for the
far interior NW portions of the area.

&&

.LONG TERM /SATURDAY THROUGH THURSDAY/...
Near zonal upper flow Saturday gives way to a upper trough 
passing to the north Sunday into early Monday. At the surface 
high pressure will be moving offshore Saturday with a warm front
moving across the region. Weak surface low pressure passing 
through the Great Lakes and into upstate New York and into New 
England Saturday night into Sunday will bring a cold front 
across the region. Showers and thunderstorms will be possible 
later Saturday into Sunday. Sunday will see a return to warm and
humid conditions with heat indices 90 to 94 across much of the 
region, and dew points in the lower 70s. And with high 
precipitable water values any scattered thunderstorms could 
produce briefly heavy rainfall. Timing of the cold front passage
remains consistent and looks to be Sunday late 
afternoon/evening. Much drier air returns behind the cold front 
with temperatures returning to more seasonal normals Monday 
through Wednesday. The cold front that moved through 
Sunday/Sunday night will remain south of the region, and 
possibly return north as a warm front later Wednesday into 
Thursday, bringing warm and humid conditions back to the area.

&&

.AVIATION /00Z FRIDAY THROUGH TUESDAY/...
A cold front passes across the terminals this evening. High
pressure then builds in from the west through Friday. 

VFR. 

SW winds to start will shift to the W and then NW behind the
cold front passage. Wind speeds around 15 kt with gusts 20-25 kt
this evening. Gusts should diminish by 06z, but could linger
around 20 kt at NYC terminals. 

NW winds 10-15 kt Friday morning gradually weaken in the
afternoon, falling below 10 kt in the evening. A few gusts up to
20 kt possible in the morning and early afternoon. 

 ...NY Metro (KEWR/KLGA/KJFK/KTEB) TAF Uncertainty...

Timing of wind shift to the W-NW may be off by 1-2 hours this
evening. 

End time of gusts tonight may be off by 1-3 hours.

Occasional gusts up to 20 kt possible Friday morning and early
afternoon. 

.OUTLOOK FOR 00Z SATURDAY THROUGH TUESDAY... 

Friday Night-Saturday: VFR. 

Saturday night and Sunday: Showers possible with a chance of
thunderstorms. MVFR or lower conditions possible.

Sunday Night-Tuesday: VFR.

Detailed information, including hourly TAF wind component forecasts, 
can be found at: https:/www.weather.gov/zny/n90

&&

.MARINE...
Strengthening SW flow will bring a period of marginal SCA
conditions to the ocean waters E of Fire Island Inlet late this
afternoon into the overnight. The remaining waters may see some
occasional near shore gusts up to 25 kt this afternoon. High 
pressure will build in on Friday, with conditions remaining 
below SCA thresholds from then through Tuesday.

&&

.HYDROLOGY...
Hydrologic impacts are not expected through the middle of next 
week.

&&

.TIDES/COASTAL FLOODING...
The risk for rip current development remain moderate this
evening, and surf height will be 2-3 ft. The moderate risk will
continue Friday and Saturday, with winds from the NW-W and a 
remaining S swell Friday, and S winds and a southerly swell
Saturday.

&&

.OKX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CT...Heat Advisory until 10 PM EDT this evening for CTZ005>012.
     Air Quality Alert until 11 PM EDT this evening for CTZ009-010.
NY...Heat Advisory until 10 PM EDT this evening for NYZ067>075-
     078>081-176>179.
NJ...Heat Advisory until 10 PM EDT this evening for NJZ002-004-006-
     103>108.
MARINE...Small Craft Advisory until 6 AM EDT Friday for ANZ350-353.

&&

$$

SYNOPSIS...MET/MW
NEAR TERM...MW
SHORT TERM...MW
LONG TERM...MET
AVIATION...DS
MARINE...MET/MW
HYDROLOGY...MET/MW
TIDES/COASTAL FLOODING...
