919 
FXUS61 KOKX 131439
AFDOKX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service New York NY
939 AM EST Thu Feb 13 2025

.SYNOPSIS...
Low pressure and its associated cold front lifts north of the area 
as a cold front pivots through late this afternoon. A large dome of 
high pressure over the nation's midsection builds tonight and 
Friday, before settling over the area Friday night. Another 
storm system then impacts the area later Saturday into Sunday. 
High pressure slowly builds back in early next week. Low 
pressure may impact the area for the middle of next week.

&&

.NEAR TERM /THROUGH TONIGHT/...
Low pres was analyzed just S of NYC at 14Z. The low will track 
newd across the cwa today across LI then into the Gulf of ME
late this aftn. With the mid lvls drying along the path of the
low and lgt winds, fog and dz can be expected today. Winds pick
up late this aftn and low clouds sct out by 00Z.

For tonight the winds will be gusty, with a few peak gusts 
immediately behind the front possibly getting to 35 mph. Otherwise 
expect 25 to 35 mph gusts tonight with strong mixing on more of a NW 
flow with strong cold advection. Skies will be clear as temperatures 
will turn sharply colder late in the evening and into the overnight. 
Temperatures drop below freezing shortly after midnight in most 
places, with widespread 20s towards daybreak. The gusty NW winds 
will make it feel like it is in the teens region wide by early 
Friday morning.

&&

.SHORT TERM /FRIDAY THROUGH FRIDAY NIGHT/...
A brisk start to the day with a good deal of sunshine. The winds 
will gust to around 30 mph through midday, with the winds 
diminishing for later in the afternoon. With complete sunshine for 
much of the day, look for a few high clouds late in the day. 
Temperatures should average a good 5 or so degrees below normal with 
middle and upper 30s.

For Friday night look for increasing high and mid level clouds, 
especially after midnight. With the high settling over the area look 
for the winds to go calm. A tricky temperature forecast as enough 
high clouds could affect minimum temperatures some. If less cloud 
cover gets in then radiational cooling would be rather impressive 
with calm winds. For now will take a middle of the road approach 
with low temperatures, with mainly lower and middle 20s for the 
metro and coast, and some teens across the rural and interior 
sections.

&&

.LONG TERM /SATURDAY THROUGH WEDNESDAY/...
Another amplifying southern branch storm system will lift out of
the Mid Mississippi Valley Saturday, tracking to the north and 
west of the forecast area Saturday night into Sunday. At the 
same time, the polar vortex descends south and east out of central
Canada. Shortwave energy out ahead of it interacts with the 
aforementioned low with explosive deepening Sunday into Sunday 
night. There is some uncertainty with how quickly the cold air 
to start on Saturday retreats to the northeast, but strong 
thermal forcing will produce widespread precipitation across the
area beginning Saturday afternoon and night. This will likely 
begin as snow everywhere with a changeover from south to north 
starting at the coast late afternoon with most locations
becoming all rain around or shortly after midnight. There could
be a few pockets of surface temperatures around freezing well 
north and west of the NYC metro until around daybreak. Thus, 
looking at the potential for an advisory level event inland 
with a combination of snow and ice. Coastal locations are 
expected to see a quicker changeover with perhaps a light 
snowfall accumulation during the afternoon hours Saturday. 

For Sunday, the area gets into the warm sector as low pressure 
passes to the north and west with a gusty southerly flow, especially
for coastal locations. There is even a low chance at this time 
for an embedded thunderstorms just south of the area in warm 
conveyor belt showers. This will be refined as we get closer to 
the event. Highs on Sunday in the warm sector are forecast to 
get will into the 40s and possibly the lower 50s across NYC and 
LI. A strong cold front will then pass through late Sunday 
afternoon and evening. There are some timing issues with the 12Z
operational runs with the GFS being the fastest. At this time, 
saw no reason to defer from the NBM. More importantly, a piece 
of arctic air associated with the polar vortex dropping across 
the Great Lakes Sunday night into Monday will bring in a much 
colder airmass for the first half of next week. This will be 
accompanied by a gusty WNW flow Sunday night into Tuesday. Highs
will top out in the upper 20s to lower 30s with lows getting 
into the teens for Tuesday and Wednesday mornings. Leaned a bit 
colder than the NBM based on 2m temps in many of the operational
runs and the magnitude of the cold air coming down with 85h 
temps over the area on Tuesday around -20C.

Cold high pressure builds in for Wednesday with some uncertainty
with the southern branch storm track. The GFS is aggressive in 
taking low pressure up the east coast late Wednesday. This 
hinges on the amount of energy left in the northern branch back 
across the Great Lakes and the amount of phasing and/or interaction
between the two stream. However, it is much too early to have 
any certainty at this point in time, but something to watch. For
the time, there are low chances for snow late Wednesday.

&&

.AVIATION /15Z THURSDAY THROUGH MONDAY/...
A warm front moves near the terminals this morning, followed by
a cold front this afternoon. High pressure then builds in 
tonight.

Mainly light rain and drizzle this morning with mainly LIFR.
Conditions likely stay down for the remainder of the morning
with a quick transition from LIFR to IFR the VFR by mid
afternoon. 

E/NE flow, potentially SE along the coast, gradually shifts SW
by afternoon and increases the rest of the afternoon. Winds 
veer farther this afternoon behind the cold front, eventually 
becoming WNW early this evening with gusts around 30 kt. Gusts 
diminish late tonight. 

 ...NY Metro (KEWR/KLGA/KJFK/KTEB) TAF Uncertainty... 
Chance for brief VLIFR fog 15-17z. Amendments likely for 
changing flight categories through mid afternoon.

Timing of improvement to VFR may be off by 1-2 hours this
afternoon. 

Peak gusts to around 35kt possible late this afternoon through
this evening.

.OUTLOOK FOR 12Z FRIDAY THROUGH MONDAY... 

Friday: VFR. NW wind gusts 25 to 30 kt during the day.

Saturday - Sunday: Low pres could bring a wintry mix changing to 
rain mainly late Sat into Sun. The rain could be locally hvy.
LLWS possible along with IFR.

Monday: VFR with gusty W flow.

Detailed information, including hourly TAF wind component forecasts, 
can be found at: https:/www.weather.gov/zny/n90

&&

.MARINE...
A dense fog advy has been issued for today. Vis improves late
this aftn and eve as winds pick up. Small craft conditions will
prevail on the ocean waters today with 5 to 8 ft ocean seas and
gusts around 25 kt for the most part. Towards late in the day 
and evening small craft conditions develop for the nearshore 
waters with gusts of 25 to 30 kt. At the same time winds ramp up
to gales on the ocean waters throughout tonight. During Friday 
gales convert over to small craft conditions out on the ocean, 
with small crafts for the nearshore waters lingering for a good 
portion of the day. With high pressure approaching the waters 
look for conditions to subside late Friday afternoon and 
evening. As the high moves over the waters Friday night looks 
for the winds and seas to subside further.

High pressure on Saturday morning gives way to another storm 
system Saturday afternoon into Sunday. SCA conditions are 
forecast to redevelop on the ocean waters late Saturday night 
and across all waters Sunday in a strengthening southerly flow 
ahead of an approaching cold front and deepening low pressure 
passing to the northwest. Gales are possible on the ocean Sunday
afternoon, but temperature profiles may be too inverted to mix 
down gale force winds to the surface. However, behind a strong 
cold frontal passage late Sunday afternoon into evening, a 
westerly gale will be possible across all waters Sunday night 
into Monday.

&&

.HYDROLOGY...
There are no hydrologic concerns through the period.

&&

.TIDES/COASTAL FLOODING...
Minor coastal flooding is still anticipated across parts of the area 
with this morning's high tide cycle. The forecast remains the same 
from the previous forecast, although it may fall short of advisory 
thresholds across Southern Fairfield and Westchester Counties. Not 
enough confidence to drop the advisories here. The total water level 
forecast is a little higher than a blend of ETSS, ESTOFS, 50th and 
95th NY HOPS ensemble surge guidance.

Winds shift westerly behind a cold front this afternoon and diminish 
the surge, thus no subsequent coastal flooding expected.

&&

.OKX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CT...Coastal Flood Advisory until 2 PM EST this afternoon for 
     CTZ009.
NY...Coastal Flood Advisory until 2 PM EST this afternoon for 
     NYZ071.
     Coastal Flood Advisory until 11 AM EST this morning for NYZ074-
     075.
     Coastal Flood Advisory until noon EST today for NYZ178-179.
NJ...Coastal Flood Advisory until 11 AM EST this morning for NJZ006-
     106-108.
MARINE...Dense Fog Advisory until 4 PM EST this afternoon for ANZ331-
     332-335-338-340-345-350-353-355.
     Small Craft Advisory until 6 AM EST Friday for ANZ331-332-335-
     338-340-345.
     Small Craft Advisory until 6 PM EST this evening for ANZ350-
     353-355.
     Gale Warning from 6 PM this evening to 6 AM EST Friday for 
     ANZ350-353-355.

&&

$$

SYNOPSIS...JE/DW
NEAR TERM...JMC/JE
SHORT TERM...JE
LONG TERM...DW
AVIATION...JC/DS
MARINE...JMC/JE/DW
HYDROLOGY...JE/DW
TIDES/COASTAL FLOODING...
