169 
FXUS61 KOKX 232040
AFDOKX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service New York NY
340 PM EST Sun Feb 23 2025

.SYNOPSIS...
High pressure will be in place tonight through Monday. A weak cold 
front then moves through late Tuesday into Tuesday night. Weak high 
pressure briefly returns Wednesday before a quick moving frontal
system affects the region Wednesday night into Thursday. High pressure
briefly returns Friday into Friday night before a clipper system
and cold front moves through the northeast US next weekend.

&&

.NEAR TERM /UNTIL 6 AM MONDAY MORNING/...
Mid level shortwave shifts through the region tonight, accompanied 
by moisture centered around 500mb. Not enough moisture overall for 
any precip, but it will leave us with a cloudy sky. This will also 
help limit radiational cooling in spite of light to calm winds from a 
weak surface pressure gradient. Lows mostly 30-35 for coastal areas 
and 25-30 inland.

&&

.SHORT TERM /6 AM MONDAY MORNING THROUGH TUESDAY/...
High pressure will be centered off the Northeast coast on Monday. 
This will set up a return southerly flow for the local area. Winds 
arriving from the cold waters will hold high temperatures in the 40s 
for most of the area, however some 50 degree readings are 
anticipated in the urban corridor of NE NJ. Cirrus will begin to 
filter in by late in the day after a sunny start. 

Surface low pressure and a mid level shortwave pass well to our 
north tonight, but there could be just enough moisture focused along 
surface trough to trigger a shower late at night across the far NW 
portion of the area with some PVA. Another shortwave then approaches 
from the Ohio Valley on Tuesday and begins to shift through heading 
into the evening. More low to mid level moisture will arrive with 
this feature, and the surface trough nearby perhaps strengthens into 
a weak cold front. This combination the moisture and lift then 
brings a chance of showers to the entire area, with the better 
overall chances north and west of the city. 

&&

.LONG TERM /TUESDAY NIGHT THROUGH SUNDAY/...
Key Points:

* Temperatures will likely run 5 to 10 degrees above normal 
  Wednesday and Thursday. A return to more seasonable temps for 
  Fri/Sat, and possibly below normal to end the weekend. 

* Mainly dry conditions are expected through mid week. A quick 
  moving frontal system will likely affect the region Wed Night into 
  Thursday.

Quasi-zonal upper flow to start the period with PAC jet riding the 
northern tier of the CONUS around expansive polar trough across 
southern Canada. Within this flow, a series of shortwaves will 
traverse the northern tier of the US towards the region and 
successively amplify eastern US troughing through the late week.
 
First shortwave of note (PAC origin), will eject from the Rockies 
into northern plains Monday and through the region by Tuesday Night. 
The result will be a quick moving and weak cold front passing east 
Tuesday Night, with any light rain shower activity Tue aft/eve 
coming to an end and a weak shot of caa. 

Thereafter, increasing model agreement over the last 48hrs in 
further longitudinal amplification of troughing across the eastern 
1/2 of the US Thu/Fri in response to a phased PAC and polar 
shortwave digging through the Central US Wed Night/Thu and into the 
SE US Thu NIght/Fri. ECE and GEFS coming into better agreement with 
the amplitude/timing of a neutrally tilted trough approaching the 
east coast, before negatively tilting offshore. The deeper model 
trend with this trough, with a bit of southern stream interaction, 
does open the potential for a bit more moisture to be entrained into 
the resultant frontal system, but overall limited QPF potential with 
a progressive passage on Thu and WCB not getting going until east of 
the region. GEFS, GEPS, ECE probs of 1/2" rain in 24 hours are all 
20% or less at this point. If the trough trends towards a more 
negative negative tilt orientation, would have potential for a 
wetter solution than currently forecast, but low prob at this point.

Overall looking at a light rain rain event with the frontal system 
approaching late Wed night and moving through the region Thu. 
Unseasonably mild temps Wed Night and Thu in deep SSW flow ahead of 
the cold front, although cloud cover and onshore flow will likely 
hold temps in the 50s interior and 40s for south coasts. 
Deterministic NBM looks reasonable and generally lies near the 75th 
percentile of the ensemble pdf.

A shot of Canadian air, drying conditions, and return to more 
seasonable temps Thu Night into Friday in wake of cold frontal 
passage. Perhaps a few rain/snow showers Friday AM into early aft as 
trough axis moves through.

General agreement in polar troughing exerting more influence on the 
NE US for the second half of the weekend into early next week, 
although there is inherent model spread and run to run inconsistency 
at this time range on track/intensity of a resultant clipper system 
tracking through southern Ontario/Quebec and northern New England on 
Sat/Sat Night, and magnitude of polar intrusion in its wake. This 
clipper system could bring the next chance for a limited rain/snow 
threat, with a return to below normal temps likely during this time 
period.

&&

.AVIATION /21Z SUNDAY THROUGH FRIDAY/...
High pressure builds offshore tonight into early Monday. A
frontal system then approaches from the west. 

VFR. Mid and high level ceilings moving in this evening. 

Winds will be mainly W around 10 kt, except SW-S at times at 
KBDR and KGON. There is more uncertainty with KJFK which may
also back around to the SW-S around 20Z (per HRRR). Winds 
diminish in the evening, becoming light and variable and remain 
so into Monday morning. S winds on Monday increase to 10-12kt 
by afternoon. 

 ...NY Metro (KEWR/KLGA/KJFK/KTEB) TAF Uncertainty...

Chance of a seabreeze at KJFK around 21Z.

.OUTLOOK FOR 18Z MONDAY THROUGH FRIDAY...

Monday Afternoon: VFR.

Tuesday: Mainly VFR. Slight chance of afternoon and evening showers 
and MVFR.

Wednesday: VFR.

Thursday: Rain showers and MVFR possible. Mixed rain/snow showers 
possible at KSWF. SW winds G15-20kt.

Friday: VFR. NW winds G15-20kt.

Detailed information, including hourly TAF wind component forecasts, 
can be found at: https:/www.weather.gov/zny/n90

&&

.MARINE...
The pressure gradient remains weak tonight through Monday with high 
pressure in control. With the high moving offshore Monday into 
Monday night, and with the approach of a weak cold front, southerly 
winds will increase late Monday into Monday night. With warmer air 
moving over the cold ocean waters during this time mixing will be 
limited with gusts also limited, with gusts nearing 25 kt for a 
brief period Monday night. A weak cold front crosses the waters late 
Tuesday into Tuesday night with sub-advisory conditions continuing 
through the period.

Next chance for SCA conds on the ocean late Wed Night into Thu with 
strengthening SSW flow ahead of next approaching frontal system. SCA 
ocean seas could linger through Friday in wake of frontal system.

&&

.HYDROLOGY...
No hydrologic impacts are expected through the end of the week.

&&

.OKX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CT...None.
NY...None.
NJ...None.
MARINE...None.

&&

$$

SYNOPSIS...JC/NV
NEAR TERM...JC
SHORT TERM...JC
LONG TERM...NV
AVIATION...DW
MARINE...JC/NV
HYDROLOGY...JC/NV
