739 
FXUS61 KOKX 100839
AFDOKX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service New York NY
339 AM EST Fri Jan 10 2025

.SYNOPSIS...
High pressure to the west will gradually build across today. An 
upper level disturbance pivots through Saturday while low pressure 
down to the south pushes well offshore. High pressure settles south 
of the region later in the weekend and then weakens as it moves 
east on Monday. A cold front moves across early Tuesday followed
by high pressure gradually building in from the west Wednesday 
and Thursday.

&&

.NEAR TERM /THROUGH TONIGHT/...
Some subtle height rises build across today. This leads to the cP 
air mass in place undergoing some modification. Look for 
temperatures to get closer to normal this afternoon, but likely 
ending up a couple of degrees below normal as max temps should get 
into the middle and upper 30s as all locations except in far western 
Orange county get above freezing. The winds will continue to 
gradually lighten through the day as the pressure gradient continues 
to weaken, although the winds will still gust at times through the 
morning. It will be sunny for much of the day. More in the way of 
high clouds start to work in for the late afternoon as cirrus 
streaks across in advance of a strong confluent trough developing 
upstream back to the southwest.

For tonight clouds increase from west to east. Have introduced 
slight chance PoPs across western areas towards 06z, with most of 
the region getting into chance PoPs after 09z. Positive vorticity 
advection begins to increase during this time frame, however the 
lower levels will remain moisture starved. The main driver of any 
synoptic lift will be PVA as any thermal advection will get shunted 
well south of the area into Saturday morning as a coastal low will 
not make the northerly turn up the coast to begin the weekend. Lows 
tonight will be primarily in the 20s. Another night where 
radiational cooling is not expected, but not due to wind as the 
winds will be light, but more due to extensive cloud cover.

&&

.SHORT TERM /SATURDAY THROUGH SUNDAY/...
There remains excellent agreement among NWP with a storm system 
moving across the south and it's upper level energy getting sheared. 
The storm system thus gets shunted to the ENE and well offshore 
later on Saturday. The expectation is that NW interior locations may 
have a light coating of snow by Saturday morning from the northern 
stream upper level low as anything that falls will be cold enough 
throughout the column to be in the form of snow. 

The trough axis approaches Saturday morning with much of the higher 
res guidance showing snow showers moving from W to E across the 
region. Most places are expecting to see around a dusting, to 
perhaps a half inch in the higher elevations to the NW. The HRRR has 
hinted at some minor interaction with the coastal low, but based on 
the mid level mass fields cannot see that taking place. Look for 
partial sunshine to develop into the afternoon as the trough axis 
pivots through with the winds switching to the NW for the afternoon 
with gusts potentially returning later in the afternoon. 
Temperatures will be in the 30s region wide.

Brisk and seasonably cold Saturday night as the pressure gradient 
tightens some, but not expecting the very windy conditions that we 
have experienced behind previous past disturbances. Clear and brisk 
with lows mainly in the 20s, with wind chills primarily in the teens.

High pressure attempts to build in some from the SW on Sunday. It 
may be the first day in quite some time that most coastal sections 
get to 40 degrees, thus seasonable temperatures and remaining dry 
with sunny skies.

&&

.LONG TERM /SUNDAY NIGHT THROUGH THURSDAY/...
No significant changes to the forecast thinking Sunday night through 
next Thursday. 

Key Points:

*Dry conditions will prevail through next Thursday. 

*Temperatures will be seasonably cool temperatures starting the
 period Sunday night, but begin to weaken and slide offshore on
 Monday.

*Another shot of colder air appears likely Tuesday through Thursday 
 as below average temperatures and blustery conditions return.

Model guidance continues to be in good agreement with the large 
scale pattern evolution. Ridging both aloft and the surface will be 
in place Sunday night before weakening as it moves offshore Monday. 
An upper low will then swing across the Great Lakes Monday night and 
then settle over the northeast on Tuesday. In response, a dry cold 
front will move across the area early Tuesday. Broad low pressure 
should then organize off the New England coast and near the Maritimes 
Tuesday night into Wednesday with the upper low also moving 
offshore. 

The Tri-State region will once again be sandwiched between building 
high pressure to the west and low pressure to the east for the late 
Tuesday through Thursday period. Temperatures start to fall Tuesday 
with highs in the lower to middle 30s. Highs for Wednesday and 
Thursday then look to only reach the upper 20s and lower 30s. 
Nighttime temperatures Tuesday night and Wednesday night look to 
fall into the teens for most and low 20s in the NYC metro. 

Blustery NW winds are likely to occur behind the front later Tuesday 
and especially Wednesday and Thursday. The current model consensus 
does not indicate winds as strong as the recent stretch of weather. 
However, have noted a slight uptick in wind gusts in the 75th and 
90th percentile of the NBM, generally 25 to 35 mph. NBM 
deterministic winds which have been running low in recent NW flow 
and cold advection regimes, so sided closer to the NBM 75th and 90th 
percentiles with this update. The strongest winds look to peak on 
Wednesday. It would also not be surprising to see winds and gusts 
trend upward in the coming days given the surface pattern and winds 
overperforming in NW flow and cold advection regimes this
winter. 

&&

.AVIATION /09Z FRIDAY THROUGH TUESDAY/...
High pressure builds into the region through this evening. Low 
pressure will then pass south of the area tonight into Saturday.  

VFR through at least 06z Saturday. Light snow develops 09-12z 
Saturday with potential of MVFR.

NW flow around 310 true through this evening. Gusts around 25 kt 
continue early this morning, but should decrease later this morning 
before ending by early afternoon. Some backing of the winds possible 
this evening as wind speeds fall below 10 kt. Winds then become 
light and variable late tonight.

     NY Metro (KEWR/KLGA/KJFK/KTEB) TAF Uncertainty...

Occasional gusts around 30 kt possible early this morning. 

End time of gusts may be off by 1-2 hours. 

OUTLOOK FOR 06Z SATURDAY THROUGH TUESDAY...

Late Tonight-Saturday: Chance of light snow and MVFR late tonight 
and early Saturday, then VFR. NW gusts 20 kt possible late Saturday 
and Saturday night.

Sunday-Monday: VFR.

Tuesday: VFR. NW wind gusts 20-30 kt possible.

Detailed information, including hourly TAF wind component forecasts, 
can be found at: https:/www.weather.gov/zny/n90

&&

.MARINE...
Any gales get converted over to small crafts, with small craft 
conditions lingered through this morning. This afternoon any small 
crafts for the eastern waters will end, with sub advisory conditions 
prevailing into tonight as weak high pressure settles over the 
waters. Light winds are expected early Saturday, before a NW flow 
returns as a coastal low off to the south pushes well offshore and a 
disturbance works through from the west. In its wake NW winds 
increase late in the day Saturday and into Saturday evening yielding 
marginal small craft conditions across most of the waters.

Conditions return below SCA levels Sunday through Monday night.
Marginal SCA conditions are possible on the ocean Tuesday and 
Tuesday night as NW flow increases behind a cold front passage. 

&&

.HYDROLOGY...
No hydrologic issues are anticipated through the middle of next
week.

&&

.OKX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CT...None.
NY...None.
NJ...None.
MARINE...Small Craft Advisory until 11 AM EST this morning for ANZ331-
     335-338-345-355.
     Gale Warning until 6 AM EST early this morning for ANZ332-340-
     350-353.
     Small Craft Advisory until 1 PM EST this afternoon for ANZ332-
     340-350-353.

&&

$$

SYNOPSIS...JE/DS
NEAR TERM...JE
SHORT TERM...JE
LONG TERM...DS
AVIATION...DS
MARINE...JE/DS
HYDROLOGY...JE/DS
