682 
FXUS61 KOKX 141846
AFDOKX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service New York NY
246 PM EDT Thu Aug 14 2025

.SYNOPSIS...
A weakened cold front is moving through the area this afternoon 
and exits south this evening. High pressure then builds in on 
Friday followed by another another cold front that approaches 
Sunday, moving through during the late afternoon into early 
evening hours. The front will likely stall to the south of the 
area with waves of low pressure tracking along it from the 
Midwest into the Ohio Valley through the middle of next week.

&&

.NEAR TERM /THROUGH TONIGHT/...
A weakening cold front is currently moving through the area and
will makes its exit south of the area tonight. 12Z CAMs have 
gone way down on POP coverage, all now agreeing on isolated 
coverage. This seems to be attributed to dry air moving in 
above the surface, which can be observed via water vapor imagery
and seen in model soundings. With weak forcing, this dry air 
will be hard to overcome for shower and thunderstorm 
development. Therefore, only slight POPs remain through this 
evening. 

SBCAPEs of 1,000-2,000 J/kg are still possible, which could lead to 
isolated thunderstorms, but with weak shear in place and PWATs 
continually lowering, there are no longer isolated flood concerns. 
Bulk 0-6km shear will be below 20 kts, so any thunderstorms that do 
develop will likely be short-lived single cells through this evening.

Tonight, things look to dry out as the front exits the CWA to the 
south. Skies clear with lows in the low/mid 70s for coastal areas 
while interior areas drop into the mid/upper 60s.

A weak pressure gradient with light winds could lead to patchy fog 
development tonight for areas out east. 

&&

.SHORT TERM /FRIDAY THROUGH SATURDAY NIGHT/...
Weak ridging aloft with high pressure at the surface will lead to a 
dry pattern Friday through Saturday night. The only exception is a 
possible weak shortwave aloft that could lead to increased cloud 
cover Friday night with possible isolated POPs for the interior NW 
of NYC on Saturday. However, more than likely, it will stay dry. 

Given a weak pressure gradient resulting in light/calm winds at 
night, additional opportunities for patchy fog exist Friday and 
Saturday nights. 

Highs Friday will be similar to Thursday in the mid to upper 80s for 
most. Saturday may be slightly cooler with highs in the low to mid 
80s. Both Friday and Saturday nights, lows will be in the mid to 
upper 60s for the area while NYC metro areas may only drop into the 
low 70s. 

&&

.LONG TERM /SUNDAY THROUGH THURSDAY/...
The NBM was largely followed through the forecast period.

Key Points:

* Following a cold frontal passage late Sunday, expect mainly dry 
  conditions with low chances of showers mainly inland Tuesday and 
  Wednesday.

* Above seasonable high temperatures on Sunday becoming below normal 
  Monday through Wednesday.


An upper trough tracking across eastern Canada and northern New 
England on Sunday will send a cold front through the area during the 
late afternoon and evening hours. Scattered showers and 
thunderstorms are expected along and just ahead of the front.
At this time, the severe weather threat is low due to weak mid level 
lapse rates and weak wind shear. There may even be too much dry air 
aloft (stabilizing effect). However, these details should be better 
resolved once we get within the CAMs 48h window.

The front stalls south of the area on Monday while what is forecast 
to be Hurricane Erin starts to take a more northerly track across 
the western Atlantic, then eventually a more NE track based on a 
consensus forecast from the global models. There is always inherent 
uncertainty in the track forecast, especially this far out in time. 
Please always refer to the latest official forecast from the 
National Hurricane Center. As for any impacts, it looks almost 
certain that long period swells will bring dangerous rip currents to 
the oceanfront next week.

As for rain, chances will be low during the period with high 
pressure ridging across the area early in the week, but gradually 
weakening as the high moves offshore by midweek. Depending on the 
track of Erin, ridging to the north of the low could be 
strengthened. For the time, there is a low chance of showers Tuesday 
and Wednesday as rain from frontal waves to the west tries overrun 
the ridge over the area. The frontal boundary may simply wash out by 
Thursday as northerly flow bridges across it.

Behind the front, WNW flow aloft and surface easterlies will keep 
temperatures below normal with daytime highs Mon-Wed in the mid 70s 
to around 80. Lows will also be several degrees below normal, 
ranging from the upper 50s inland/Pine Barrens Region of LI to the 
mid/upper 60s across the NYC metro. 

&&

.AVIATION /18Z THURSDAY THROUGH TUESDAY/...
A cold front moves across the terminals through this evening.
High pressure then builds in through Friday.  

VFR through the TAF period. An isolated shower or thunderstorm
possible this afternoon and early evening.

Light flow to start this afternoon should become SW-S under 10
kt mid to late afternoon. Winds diminish this evening before
becoming NE behind the cold front passage. NE winds continue
Friday morning, becoming SE in the afternoon 10 kt or less.

 ...NY Metro (KEWR/KLGA/KJFK/KTEB) TAF Uncertainty...

Isolated shower/thunderstorm possible this afternoon and early
evening. 

.OUTLOOK FOR 18Z FRIDAY THROUGH TUESDAY... 

Friday Afternoon-Saturday: VFR. 

Sunday: Mainly VFR. Chance of afternoon and evening showers and
thunderstorms, mainly NYC terminals N and W. 

Monday-Tuesday: VFR.

Detailed information, including hourly TAF wind component forecasts, 
can be found at: https:/www.weather.gov/zny/n90

&&

.MARINE...
A weak pressure gradient remains across the local waters through the 
first half of the weekend, with sub-SCA conditions expected to 
continue.

Sub SCA conditions are likely Sunday and Monday, though the swell on 
the ocean waters will increase Monday into Tuesday from distant 
tropical cyclone Erin. Seas on Tuesday are currently forecast to 
build to around 5 ft. Follow the National Hurricane Center 
(www.hurricanes.gov) for the latest on Erin.

&&

.HYDROLOGY...
There are no significant hydrological concerns through next 
Thursday.

&&

.TIDES/COASTAL FLOODING...
There remains a low risk of rip currents at the ocean beaches. Winds 
are near 5 mph or less and waves are forecast to be 2 ft or less.

For Friday, flow becomes more easterly. Winds become more easterly 
and increase to near 5 to 10 mph. A 2 to 3 ft 4 second period swell 
develops but this will be more of an along shore current, resulting 
in waves in the surf zone only forecast to be near 1 ft or less. 
Therefore, without a significant increase in winds compared to the 
previous day and waves expected to be a little less, there is also a 
low risk of rip currents forecast at the ocean beaches on
Friday.

&&

.OKX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CT...None.
NY...None.
NJ...None.
MARINE...None.

&&

$$

SYNOPSIS...BR/DW
NEAR TERM...BR
SHORT TERM...BR
LONG TERM...DW
AVIATION...DS
MARINE...BR/DW
HYDROLOGY...BR/DW
TIDES/COASTAL FLOODING...
