589 
FXUS61 KOKX 222321
AFDOKX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service New York NY
721 PM EDT Tue Apr 22 2025

.SYNOPSIS...
High pressure builds in slowly from the west tonight, and will
be over the region Wednesday into Thursday. The high begins to 
move offshore late Thursday into early Friday. A frontal system 
will move across the area late Friday into Saturday, followed by
high pressure Sunday into Monday.

&&

.NEAR TERM /UNTIL 6 AM WEDNESDAY MORNING/...
Temperatures and dewpoints were adjusted to better align with
the current observations and trends with the front moving 
through. Otherwise, the forecast remains on track with this 
evening update. 

A weak cold front was moving east of the region early this
evening, with high pressure beginning to build to the west.
A light NW to N flow will persist through tonight, though the 
light flow may end up becoming light and variable or calm at 
some locations. This may result in some outlying spots to cool 
a bit more than coastal or more urban locations. Lows tonight 
will generally be in the upper 40s to low 50s closer to the NYC 
metro. Outlying locations may cool into the middle to possibly 
lower 40s.

&&

.SHORT TERM /6 AM WEDNESDAY MORNING THROUGH WEDNESDAY NIGHT/...
Surface high pressure will build into the area into Wednesday 
with mid-level flow remaining fairly zonal. This will result in 
a slightly cooler airmass than Tuesday, though it should be much
clearer, especially along the coast. High temperatures will 
rise into the low 70s for much of the interior. NE NJ and the 
NYc metro may rise into the middle 70s with Long Island and the 
immediate coast topping out in the middle to upper 60s. 

High pressure overhead will result in fairly light flow which will 
allow for seabreezes to dominate the flow for the coast. The 
relatively cold ocean will prevent coastal areas from rising too 
high in temperature and is the reason highs will be lower in these 
locations.

High pressure continues to dominate into Wednesday night with light 
flow and clear skies. Low temperatures Wednesday night will be in 
the middle 40s to lower 50s with the warmer spots being in and 
around the NYC metro.

&&

.LONG TERM /THURSDAY THROUGH TUESDAY/...
12Z global models haven't changed much from their prior 00Z 
runs. They continue to fluctuate with the timing of the frontal 
system for late Friday into Saturday. The 12Z GFS is still the 
fastest of the globals, by about 12h. The timing seems to hinge 
on the complex interaction of southern branch PAC NW energy and 
multiple pieces of northern branch energy dropping across 
central Canada toward the end of this week. Remained close to 
the NBM during this time. 

High pressure offshore at the start of this period will retreat out 
into the Atlantic while the aforementioned frontal system brings a 
chance of showers into the area Friday afternoon with the most 
likely timeframe after midnight Friday through the day on Saturday. 
Marginal instability could result in isolated thunderstorms north 
and west of the NYC metro Saturday afternoon. Onshore flow and weak 
lapse rates should limit coverage, but kept slight chance for 
thunder for much of the area given the uncertainty in timing of the 
front. High pressure then builds in from the west Sunday into 
Monday. 

Temperatures remain above normal through Saturday, warmest Thursday 
night through Friday night (5 to 10 degrees). A return closer to 
normal is expected Sunday into Monday following the frontal
system.

&&

.AVIATION /00Z WEDNESDAY THROUGH SUNDAY/...
High pressure builds in from the west tonight, and will be over
the region Wednesday.

VFR through the TAF period.

Westerly flow 10 kt or less early this evening veers to NW then
N late evening into the overnight. The flow then backs to the
west late morning to around midday at the coastal terminals, and
into the mid afternoon inland. Sea breezes are likely to develop
at the coastal terminals during the afternoon, and may be around
an hour earlier than forecast.


 ...NY Metro (KEWR/KLGA/KJFK/KTEB) TAF Uncertainty...

A sea breeze is likely Wednesday afternoon at KJFK, and late
afternoon at KLGA, and may be about an hour earlier at KJFK. At
this time the sea breeze is not likely to reach KEWR and KTEB
with the flow becoming westerly during the afternoon.


.OUTLOOK FOR 00Z THURSDAY THROUGH SUNDAY...

Wednesday night-Thursday: VFR.

Friday: VFR during the day.

Friday Night-Saturday: MVFR or lower in showers. An isolated 
thunderstorm possible Saturday. SW gusts 15-20 kt possible. 

Sunday: VFR. N gusts 15-20 kt possible.

Detailed information, including hourly TAF wind component forecasts, 
can be found at: https:/www.weather.gov/zny/n90

&&

.MARINE...
Light flow with high pressure building overhead will result in sub-
SCA conditions through at least Friday. The next chance for SCA 
conditions will be Friday night into Saturday night with a frontal 
system moving across the waters. However, these conditions would 
only be marginal, should they occur. They will subside by Sunday 
morning, remaining below SCA criteria into the beginning of next 
week.

&&

.HYDROLOGY...
At this time there are no hydrologic concerns through early next
week.

&&

.OKX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CT...None.
NY...None.
NJ...None.
MARINE...None.

&&

$$

SYNOPSIS...BR/MW
NEAR TERM...BR/MW
SHORT TERM...MW
LONG TERM...BR
AVIATION...MET
MARINE...BR/MW
HYDROLOGY...BR/MW
