521 
FXUS61 KOKX 141145
AFDOKX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service New York NY
745 AM EDT Thu Aug 14 2025

.SYNOPSIS...
A cold front moves into the region today from the northwest. The 
front will slowly exit the area late this afternoon into this 
evening. The front then moves far offshore late tonight through 
Friday. High pressure from Southeast Canada moves in Friday into 
Saturday. Another cold front approaches Sunday, moving through 
late in the day into Sunday night. The front may stall nearby, 
and waves of low pressure move along the boundary into early 
next week.

&&

.NEAR TERM /THROUGH TONIGHT/...
Minor adjustments made to forecast grids. There is some fog 
across the interior this morning. Uncertainty about convection,
may end up being less coverage than forecast. Likewise, this
would lead to temperatures being slightly warmer than forecast.

An upper level trough moves across well north of the local region 
today. While height falls are not evident across the local
region, actually heights slightly rise, some models are 
indicating some sort of positive vorticity advection in smaller 
less organized areas traversing the local area.

At the surface, a cold front moves into the region but appears to 
slightly weaken as it does so. Models convey a slight increase in 
the low pressure along it.

The CAMs exhibit vastly different solutions and a lack of coherency 
in their reflectivity fields. The uncertainty therefore is greater 
and POPs stay below 50 percent through the day today for showers
and thunderstorms. They do increase late this morning through 
the afternoon into chance levels and remain at chance levels 
early this evening before significantly decreasing. Highest
chances this afternoon into early evening.

The forcing and bulk shear of 0-6 km AGL only 20 kt will be limiting 
to the strength of thunderstorms. However, with some decrease 
in steering flow and weakening of the cold front, showers and 
thunderstorm that do form will be slower moving. This will 
become more of a hydrology issue but lack of organization 
should preclude sufficient areal expansion and aggregate 
development characteristic of multicellular convection. Some 
CAMs just depict isolated convection while others show more 
scattered coverage convection.

High temperatures today were from the NBM which have recently 
performed better than MOS in being the slightly higher solution 
compared to MOS. SW flow will continue and some extra sun in between 
showers and thunderstorms will allow for more potential in 
temperatures being higher than forecast. Dewpoints from NBM were 
lowered with more MOS favored for this parameter. Max temperatures 
today are mainly from the mid 80s to around 90 and with dewpoints in 
the upper 60s to near 70 for much of the area, resulting max heat 
indices will just be a few degrees higher than the actual 
temperature (i.e. low 90s). This is below heat advisory
criteria.

For tonight, the cold front will eventually move south of the 
entire region and push south of Long Island overnight into early
morning hours of Friday. Flow becomes more northerly but with a
weakening pressure gradient, the wind speeds remain quite 
light. As a result, some areas could get some fog with overnight
cooling into early Friday morning. This will be more favored 
for those locations that received earlier rainfall.

&&

.SHORT TERM /FRIDAY THROUGH SATURDAY NIGHT/...
For the rest of the short term and going through the first half
of the upcoming weekend, high pressure will be in more control 
of the local weather. High pressure builds south into the area 
from SE Canada and then remains centered near the Canadian 
Maritimes through Saturday. This allow for a more easterly flow 
to develop and eventually modify the local airmass.

Mainly dry conditions persist and temperatures exhibit a 
cooling trend due to greater easterly component of low level 
flow. At night, both Friday night and Saturday night, some 
outlying areas across Lower Hudson Valley, Southern Connecticut 
and interior Northeast New Jersey could develop some fog but 
coverage is mostly expected to be patchy.

&&

.LONG TERM /SUNDAY THROUGH WEDNESDAY/...
The NBM was largely followed with this update with no major changes. 

Key Points:

* Mainly dry conditions with varying shower chances, especially 
  Sunday and Tuesday afternoons.

* Above seasonable high temperatures on Sunday becoming slightly 
  below seasonable through the remainder of the period.

Mid and upper ridging over the Central Plains allows for northwest 
flow aloft to begin the extended forecast period.  A shortwave 
trough passes north of the forecast area on Sunday, with weak 
ridging in place through early next week. The central plains ridging 
retrogrades west by midweek, allowing another trough to move through 
New England by midweek.

At the surface, a cold front approaches the area on Sunday 
afternoon, increasing the chances for showers and thunderstorms into 
Sunday evening. LREF mean soundings via DESI for the region do have 
some MUCAPE (~500-1000J/kg) and PWATS near 2.0", but bulk shear 
remains less than 20kts, with better forcing north of the area. So 
not expecting much in the way of severe thunderstorms. Sunday will 
be the warmest day of the period under southwest flow. The cold 
front passes through on Sunday evening into early Monday, and will 
usher in a drier airmass.  

The front stalls to the south of the local area by Monday. With weak 
areas of low pressure riding along the boundary Tuesday and 
Wednesday, precipitation chances will remain each day, but by no 
means is the period a washout.

&&

.AVIATION /12Z THURSDAY THROUGH MONDAY/...
A cold front moves through and stalls over, or just south, of the 
terminals today.

MVFR cigs in stratus should scatter out by 12-13Z, especially 
for KGON, KISP, KBDR, KHPN and KSWF. VFR conditions return by 
13-15Z, then MVFR in showers/tsra this afternoon. Have 
maintained the Prob30s, given question of spatial coverage of 
any tstms. 

Winds lgt and var this morning become northerly by afternoon. 
Increasing southerly flow then follows in the afternoon, 
followed by light N/VRB flow Thu ngt.

 ...NY Metro (KEWR/KLGA/KJFK/KTEB) TAF Uncertainty...

Timing of tsra may be 1-2 hours off.

.OUTLOOK FOR 00Z FRIDAY THROUGH MONDAY... 

Thursday night-Sunday: VFR. 

Monday: Morning -shra and MVFR possible, otherwise mainly VFR.

Detailed information, including hourly TAF wind component forecasts, 
can be found at: https:/www.weather.gov/zny/n90

&&

.MARINE...
A weak pressure gradient remains across the local waters through
the first half of the weekend, with sub-SCA conditions expected
to continue.

Sub SCA conditions are likely Sunday and Monday, though swell 
on the ocean waters may begin to increase Monday from distant 
tropical cyclone Erin. Follow the National Hurricane Center 
(www.hurricanes.gov) for the latest on Erin.

&&

.HYDROLOGY...
There is a marginal risk for flash flooding with thunderstorms 
that develop this afternoon into early evening. While coverage 
of thunderstorms appears to get to scattered at most, the high 
PW values of near 2 inches and enhanced convergence along the 
front will allow for a greater potential of torrential 
downpours.

Any flooding should be quite localized and mostly minor
nuisance, confined to low-lying, poor drainage and urban areas.

Basin averaged amounts with the front stay under a half inch.
Localized higher amounts will be possible.

Otherwise, there are no significant hydrological concerns
thereafter through next Thursday.

&&

.TIDES/COASTAL FLOODING...
For today, there is a low risk of rip currents at the ocean
beaches. Winds are near 5 mph or less and waves are forecast to
be 2 ft or less.

For Friday, flow becomes more easterly. Winds become more 
easterly and increase to near 5 to 10 mph. A 2 to 3 ft 4 second 
period swell develops but this will be more of an along shore 
current, resulting in waves in the surf zone only forecast to be
near 1 ft or less. Therefore, without a significant increase in
winds compared to the previous day and waves expected to be a 
little less, there is also a low risk of rip currents forecast 
at the ocean beaches on Friday.

&&

.OKX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CT...None.
NY...None.
NJ...None.
MARINE...None.

&&

$$

SYNOPSIS...JM/DBR
NEAR TERM...JM
SHORT TERM...JM
LONG TERM...DBR
AVIATION...DBR
MARINE...JM/DBR
HYDROLOGY...JM/DBR
TIDES/COASTAL FLOODING...
