117 
FXUS61 KOKX 311109 CCA
AFDOKX

Area Forecast Discussion...CORRECTED
National Weather Service New York NY
709 AM EDT Sat May 31 2025

.SYNOPSIS...
Low pressure will move across the region this morning, followed by a 
cold frontal passage this afternoon and evening. A surface trough 
moves through Sunday evening. High pressure then gradually builds in 
and remains in control through mid-week, with a few more weak 
surface troughs swinging through early in the week. A cold front 
looks to move through sometime Thursday or Friday.

&&

.NEAR TERM /UNTIL 6 PM THIS EVENING/...
Winds have been increased with this update to account for gusts
that have occurred higher than expected.

Moderate to heavy rainfall is beginning to taper with the low
moving into the Lower Hudson Valley and SW CT. A Flood Watch 
remains in effect for the Lower Hudson Valley through 11 am.
This area has racked up 1-3" inches of rain with many of the
higher amounts in Orange county.

Some wrap-around precipitation will move through mid to late
morning through much of the area as the low exits north and
east.

As we get into late morning and early afternoon, the low will
continue to exit northeast of the area. This brings in drier 
air & cuts off most of the more intense precip. Spotty to 
isolated showers may still occur into the early afternoon.

Another chance for brief downpours with showers and thunderstorms 
may occur with a frontal passage behind the departing low late this 
afternoon into early tonight. Instability is marginal, so only a few 
rumbles of thunder are expected. Flood impacts will be minimal given 
the quicker progression of these showers with the front and given 
coverage will be less compared to this morning.

Ahead of and with the front, a LLJ with move through west to
east, which could lead to a spike in winds, leading to gusty
conditions.

&&

.SHORT TERM /6 PM THIS EVENING THROUGH SUNDAY NIGHT/...
Following the cold frontal passage, drier and cooler air will get 
filtered in tonight. Cooler air will be aided by a large upper-level 
low spinning over the northeast US and under westerly flow, locally.

Dry weather remains until late Sunday into early Sunday night. A few 
isolated showers may briefly return late Sunday into early Sunday 
night aided by pockets of mid-level energy passing with a shortwave 
that rotates around the periphery of an upper-level low still 
sitting over the northeast. This upper-low will remain in place 
through at least Sun night, holding cooler air in the region. 

Low temps both tonight and Sunday night drop into the low-50s at the 
coast, with mid/upper-40s in the interior. Sunday's highs will max 
out in the mid-60s to near 70.

&&

.LONG TERM /MONDAY THROUGH FRIDAY/...
Troughing in the mid and upper levels remains over the northeast 
through early next week with several shortwaves rotating through. In 
turn, several weak surface troughs will swing through as high 
pressure tries to build in from the southwest. These features will 
not result in anything other than some cloud cover. High pressure 
that is centered to our south will slide offshore Tuesday night but 
remain in control through at least Wednesday. A cold front then 
looks to move through sometime Thursday or Friday resulting in some 
showers and thunderstorms.

There is some forecast uncertainty mainly for mid next week as the 
ECMWF has shown a cutoff low just to our south that lingers near the 
area in some past runs. This would result in cooler temperatures, 
more cloud cover and maybe even some precip. However the guidance 
does push this feature farther east so the trend will have to be 
watched. Other guidance is showing this feature, but much farther 
east and not impacting us. General consensus is for ridging to build 
in and a deep S/SW flow to bring warm temperatures up into the 80s 
for mid week.

Overall stuck pretty close to the NBM other than cloud cover for mid 
week. Thinking was it was leaning too much towards the ECMWF cut off 
low situation. Temps will be a bit below normal on Sunday, normal 
Monday and then warm for mid week.

&&

.AVIATION /12Z SATURDAY THROUGH WEDNESDAY/...
Deepening low pressure over central NJ this morning will track
slowly NNE, tracking in close proximity to NYC around 12Z, then
lifting up into central New England by early afternoon. A cold 
front will follow in the afternoon.

Widespread rain with embedded thunderstorms will lift north
across the area through about 12Z. Some pockets of heavier 
wraparound rain though will linger through about 15Z, mainly
across the NYC and Lower Hudson Valley terminals. A round of
heavier showers with possibly thunderstorms will move across the
area in the afternoon into early evening hours, from about 19Z
to 23Z. This looks to be much more scattered in coverage.

Expect widespread IFR/LIFR conditions this morning. The heavier 
showers and thunderstorms may actually help lift ceilings a bit 
due to increasing mixing. MVFR conditions will develop behind 
the cold front, eventually improving to VFR. MVFR ceilings may 
linger across the Lower Hudson Valley terminals into this 
afternoon.

Low confidence with the wind forecast overnight into the morning,
and is dependent on the track and timing of the low moving through
the terminals. SE to E winds will likely become light and 
variable before shifting to the W and NW early behind the cold 
front later this morning with gusts 20-30kt.

 ...NY Metro (KEWR/KLGA/KJFK/KTEB) TAF Uncertainty... 

Amendments are likely for timing of category changes, wind
shifts, and timing of increasing gusts. 

.OUTLOOK FOR 06Z SUNDAY THROUGH WEDNESDAY... 

Late Saturday night: VFR. A few lingering W winds G20kt.

Sunday through Wednesday...VFR.

&&

.MARINE... 
A SCA has been issued on all waters through this evening. Winds
will reach SCA criteria on non-ocean waters while ocean waters
waves will also meet SCA criteria. Its possible some isolated
low-end gales could transpire on ocean waters, but will be to
short in time and not widespread enough for a Gale Warning
issuance. The SCA will continue on ocean waters only (for waves)
into tonight.

SCA conditions linger on the ocean waters into Sunday with very 
marginal 20-25 kt gusts and 5 foot seas. Thereafter, sub SCA 
conditions expected through at least mid-week. 5 to 6 foot seas 
could return late week ahead of an approaching cold front.

&&

.HYDROLOGY...
A flood watch has been issued for NE NJ and the Lower Hudson Valley, 
in effect now into the morning. Rainfall amounts will range between 
1 and 2 inches, with the potential for locally 3+ inches across the 
watch area. Rainfall rates across NJ and the Lower Hudson Valley may 
be as high as 1 to 2 inches per hour in the heaviest and most 
persistent rain. The heavy rain may result in isolated to scattered 
instances of flash flooding of urban and poor drainage areas, as 
well as a few quick responding rivers, creeks, and streams. WPC has 
an slight risk of excessive rainfall for the watch area. 

There are no hydrologic concerns Sunday through the end of next
week.

&&

.TIDES/COASTAL FLOODING...
Water levels may just barely touch minor flood benchmarks possible 
in the most vulnerable spots with the high tide cycles tonight due 
the passage of a deepening low pressure system. No statements have 
been issued. No additional coastal flooding is expected this weekend 
into early next week. 

With a 5-7 ft southerly swell at 7-8 s, high rip current activity is 
expected on Saturday at the Suffolk County beaches. Swell height and 
period are a bit lower farther west, where a moderate risk is in 
effect. A moderate risk is expected for all beaches on Sunday with 
lowering swell and still no real onshore wind component.

&&

.OKX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CT...None.
NY...Flood Watch until 11 AM EDT this morning for NYZ067>070.
     High Risk for Rip Currents through this evening for NYZ080-081.
NJ...Flood Watch until 11 AM EDT this morning for NJZ002.
MARINE...Small Craft Advisory until 8 PM EDT this evening for ANZ331-
     332-340-345.
     Small Craft Advisory until 5 PM EDT this afternoon for ANZ335-
     338.
     Small Craft Advisory until 6 PM EDT Sunday for ANZ350-353.
     Small Craft Advisory until 8 AM EDT Sunday for ANZ355.

&&

$$

SYNOPSIS...BR/JT
NEAR TERM...BR
SHORT TERM...BR
LONG TERM...JT
AVIATION...DW
MARINE...BR/JT
HYDROLOGY...BR/JT
TIDES/COASTAL FLOODING...
