956 
FXUS61 KOKX 040938
AFDOKX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service New York NY
438 AM EST Tue Mar 4 2025

.SYNOPSIS...
High pressure off the Mid Atlantic coast will slowly move
farther offshore through tonight. As strong low pressure moves
northeast through the upper Great Lakes region on Wednesday, a
pre-frontal trough will approach and move across in the
afternoon and evening, followed by a cold front late Wednesday
night into Thursday morning. The front will move farther to the
east Thursday night, with high pressure gradually building in
and passing to the south through Friday. A weak frontal system 
then passes through on Saturday. Another low pressure system
should pass well to the south on Sunday as weak high pressure 
moves in through early next week.

&&

.NEAR TERM /THROUGH TONIGHT/...
A cloud deck associated with mid level WAA has overspread areas
west of the Hudson, and per GFS/RAP fcst soundings should make
it into the rest of the area this morning. Skies should be 
mostly cloudy from NYC north/west and across a good deal of SW 
CT. For now have gone more optimistic with sky cover across SE 
CT and Long Island with a partly cloudy forecast, but even those
areas could ed up mostly cloudy by afternoon. Despite the 
clouds today should be noticeably milder via SW-S return flow 
around the offshore high, with highs in the lower 50s from NYC 
north/west, and mid/upper 40s across Long Island and S CT where 
there sill be more marine influence. 

A few showers well in advance of the approaching frontal system
could approach areas well NW of NYC late tonight. Low temps 
will range from the lower 40s across NYC metro and Long Island, 
to the mid/upper 30s elsewhere. Those lows may occur around 
midnight, with temps holding steady or slowly rising overnight 
with continued WAA. 

&&

.SHORT TERM /WEDNESDAY THROUGH THURSDAY NIGHT/...
As the strong low tracks to our northwest, a pre-frontal trough
will approach and then pass through from Wed into Wed evening.
Light overrunning rainfall expected in the morning and early 
afternoon from NYC north/west, then deep strong lift combines
with anomalous moisture to bring a period of moderate to 
locally heavy rain as the pre-frontal trough moves across.
Strong southerly flow will bring in a plume of moisture
characterized by PW around 1.25 inches and sfc dewpoints in the
upper 40s/lower 50s. Rainfall rates over 1/2 inch an hour could
lead to some nuisance urban and poor drainage flooding. Some 
rumbles of thunder may be possible in the evening from the NYC
metro area west, then again late at night across ern Long
Island/CT as additional rain bands move up from the south with a
weak wave of low pressure developing along the pre-frontal
trough.

Strong winds are also possible with this system. LLJ peaks over
the area Wed night with 60-70 knot speed max between 900-950 
mb. A strong sfc-based inversion will be in place, and the 
question will be how much of this can mix down. Taking 50-60% 
of the 925 LLJ leaves us just short of wind advisory criteria 
over NYC, Long Island, and coastal CT, with peak gusts over 40
mph. 

After the pre-frontal trough moves east, still expect chance of
showers into Thu with the passing cold front and lagging upper 
trough/low level cyclonic flow, especially across Long Island 
and S CT. Winds shift W after cold fropa but the pressure 
gradient looks to remain weak until late day or early evening 
as winds veer NW and increase to 15-25 mph with gusts 25-35 mph.

Temps on thu remain mild, with highs in the 50s, then falling 
back to the upper 30s to mid 30s Thu night. 

&&

.LONG TERM /FRIDAY THROUGH MONDAY/...
Key Points:

* Windy conditions are expected to continue on Friday,
  especially in the morning and early afternoon.

* A weak frontal system passes across the area on Saturday, but 
  mainly dry conditions are expected.

* Another low pressure system is expected to pass well to the 
  south on Sunday, but dry conditions should prevail into early 
  next week.
  
Deep low pressure will spin across the Canadian Maritimes on
Friday as high pressure builds towards the region. The 
pressure gradient is quite steep, especially Friday morning 
supporting continued potential for gusts 30-35 mph. The gradient
begins to relax in the afternoon and especially Friday night 
allowing winds and gusts to weaken considerably compared to the 
morning. High temperatures will be slightly above normal in the 
middle to upper 40s for most spots with around 50 in the NYC/NJ 
metro.

A flat shortwave and associated weak low/frontal system rapidly 
approach Friday night and pass across the region the first half 
of Saturday. There is very little forcing and limited moisture 
to support precip development. Have maintained a slight chance 
Saturday morning for now, but it is possible that nothing more 
than a few sprinkles occur with clearing conditions in the 
afternoon. High temperatures look similar to Friday. 

Most of the models have been in good agreement on a southern
stream low pressure passing well to our south on Sunday. The 
latest ECMWF, UKMET, CMC, and ICON as well as much of their 
ensembles continue to agree with this scenario. Earlier runs of 
the GFS (12z and 18z March 3rd) shifted much further north due 
to phasing with the northern stream. This scenario would bring 
potential impacts to the region. However. the latest 00z GFS has
shifted back to the south, keeping the streams separated 
allowing the low to pass off the Carolina coast. Have continued 
follow a consensus excluding the GFS which yields PoPs below 15 
percent. The passage of the northern stream trough at some point
Sunday could increase clouds, but conditions should remain dry.
The air mass on Sunday looks much cooler with highs below 
normal in the upper 30s to lower 40s. The upper trough axis 
shifts offshore early next week with high pressure building to 
our south. Temperatures on Monday likely moderate, but still 
remain below normal in the lower to middle 40s. 

&&

.AVIATION /09Z TUESDAY THROUGH SATURDAY/...
High pressure off the Mid Atlantic coast will continue to
retreat offshore as a storm system emerges from the Central 
Plains.

VFR through about 09Z Wed, with a chance of MVFR developing
toward 12Z. 

SW winds generally less than 10 kt early this morning, but
increasing after daybreak and gradually backing around to S at
10-15kt with G20kt. A few higher gusts are possible across the 
eastern terminals. Gusts will drop off 22Z-00Z.

 ...NY Metro (KEWR/KLGA/KJFK/KTEB) TAF Uncertainty...

Onset timing of gusts may vary by 1-2 hours.

.OUTLOOK FOR 06Z WEDNESDAY THROUGH SATURDAY...

Late Tuesday Night: Becoming MVFR/IFR toward daybreak. SSW flow
increasing thru the period, especially aloft with LLWS 
possible toward 12z Wed.

Wednesday: MVFR becoming IFR and lower with periods of rain,
especially in the afternoon and evening. Isolated 
thunderstorms possible. LLWS expected. S winds increasing to 
15-25 kt with some gusts 35-40 kt, especially the S shore of 
LI.

Thursday: Mainly VFR. Gusty WNW winds developing in the
afternoon, increasing to 15-20kt G25-35kt

Friday: VFR. W winds G25-30kt. 

Saturday: VFR with W winds G15-20kt possible. 

Detailed information, including hourly TAF wind component
forecasts, can be found at: https:/www.weather.gov/zny/n90

&&

.MARINE...
SCA remains in effect for the ocean waters for this afternoon
and tonight. A developing long fetch S flow should increase to 
20 kt with some gusts up to 25 kt by afternoon, also building 
ocean seas to 5 ft. Gusts may abate Tue night as a low level 
inversion develops, but sustained flow near 20 kt should 
maintain hazardous ocean seas of 5-6 ft. 

Have upgraded the Gale Watch to a Gale Warning on the ocean
waters as S winds should increase to 25-30 kt and some gusts
over 35 kt. Gale Watch remains in effect for the non ocean
waters as there is still some uncertainty as to whether these
stronger winds will make it there as well. Meanwhile ocean seas
should build to 7-10 ft by evening and peak at 8-12 ft by
midnight. 

Winds should subside for most of daytime Thu, then increase in
the evening with a steepening pressure gradient. Gales are
possible on the ocean waters Thu night into Fri morning, with 
SCA conditions on the remaining waters. 

Winds begin subsiding Fri afternoon and should be below SCA
levels Fri night. Seas will also be subsiding through Fri night,
but could remain around 5 ft E of Fire Island Inlet through
early Sat. Conditions should then remain below SCA levels on
Sat. 

&&

.HYDROLOGY...
A frontal system impacting the region Wednesday and Wednesday night 
should produce QPF of 3/4 to 1 1/4 inch, with the higher totals
expected inland. Rainfall rates could approach 1/2 inch per hour
in spots at the time of heaviest rainfall, which could lead to 
nuisance urban and poor drainage flooding. 

&&

.TIDES/COASTAL FLOODING...
Astronomical tides will remain low through the end of the week. 
Intensifying southerly flow ahead of a strong storm system will 
increase tide levels during the Wednesday night/early Thursday 
morning high tide. Surge of 1.5 to 3 ft is needed to reach 
minor flooding benchmarks. The strongest winds may actually 
occur before high tide, limiting the surge somewhat during high 
tide. Most locations should remain at or below action stage. 
However, some of the most vulnerable locations across the south 
shore back bays and western Sound could touch minor flooding 
benchmarks. 

Large breaking waves 8-12 ft are forecast Wednesday into
Wednesday night along the oceanfront, with beach flooding 
possible.

&&

.OKX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CT...None.
NY...None.
NJ...None.
MARINE...Gale Watch from Wednesday afternoon through late Wednesday 
     night for ANZ331-332-335-338-340-345.
     Small Craft Advisory from 1 PM this afternoon to 6 AM EST 
     Wednesday for ANZ350-353-355.
     Gale Warning from 6 AM Wednesday to 4 AM EST Thursday for 
     ANZ350-353-355.

&&

$$

SYNOPSIS...BG/DS
NEAR TERM...BG
SHORT TERM...BG
LONG TERM...BG/DS
AVIATION...DS/DW
MARINE...BG/DS
HYDROLOGY...BG/DS
TIDES/COASTAL FLOODING...DS
