896 
FXUS61 KOKX 260858
AFDOKX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service New York NY
358 AM EST Wed Feb 26 2025

.SYNOPSIS...
High pressure remains in control through Wednesday afternoon. A
warm front passes Wednesday night followed by a cold front 
Thursday afternoon. High pressure then takes over again Thursday
night into Friday. Low pressure approaches from the north and 
west Friday night. An associated warm front moves north of the 
region Friday night, followed by a cold front passage Saturday 
into Saturday evening. High pressure from the west then builds 
in for the rest of the weekend and into early next week.

&&

.NEAR TERM /UNTIL 6 PM THIS EVENING/...
High pressure briefly takes hold today from our south under a small 
upper-level ridge. We will be in between an exiting low pressure 
system over the Canadian Maritimes and an approaching frontal system 
to our west. 

With high pressure in place, expecting mainly sunny and dry 
conditions for much of the day. Clouds will begin to increase west 
to east this evening as a frontal system approaches from the west. 

Under a 10 kt W/WNW flow, downslope winds could lead to temperatures 
warming more than the straight national blend of models, so have 
bumped up highs today by mixing in some NBM 90th. This brings the 
highs in line with the previous forecast. Highs will range from the 
mid-50s to the south to the low-50s in the interior, with a few 
upper-40s in the interior. 

There is a small chance that highs could end up lower in southern 
coastal areas, should a sea breeze develop in the afternoon. THis 
would happen in the scenario that the W/WNW flow would be lighter 
than anticipated. However, no 00Z CAMs have the sea breeze 
making in until later in the evening, so high temperatures 
should remain unaffected. 

&&

.SHORT TERM /6 PM THIS EVENING THROUGH FRIDAY/...
A frontal system will impact us Wednesday night into late Thursday. 
This low pressure system will be located over the Ohio River Valley 
Wednesday night, bringing a warm front through Wednesday night 
followed by a cold front late Thursday as the low pressure system 
moves north of the area into New England. 

As the warm front pushes in Wednesday night, we'll see precipitation 
develop along the front. The strongest warm air advection and FGEN 
signal appears to be over the NW half of the area as the warm front 
advances north of the area by daybreak Thursday. This will lead to a 
good chance for rain in western NE NJ, the Lower Hudson Valley, and 
into western S CT Wednesday night. Precipitation coverage looks to 
decrease along the warm front as you go to the eastern half of the 
area. Likely ending in light scattered rain for eastern half of the 
CWA. Temperatures will be warm enough for much of what falls to be 
liquid rain. There is a small chance northern Orange or Putnam 
counties may see a brief rain-snow mix early Wednesday night, but 
looks unlikely at this point in time. 

Following the warm frontal passage, there may be a brief break in 
the rain before showers gradually redevelop as the low gets closer 
and moisture increases with the southerly flow. This would likely be 
just after daybreak Thursday. 

Scattered light rain showers may linger across the area until the 
cold front approaches and passes late Thursday afternoon into early 
Thursday evening. Most 00Z CAMs keep the rain pretty light and 
scattered, but its possible they could be underdoing it. Thanks to 
the strong warm front, PWATs will range from 0.75 to 0.9", which 
exceeds the 90th percentile on SPC's Sounding Climatology page. 
Combine this with above average temperatures in the mid-50s, 
increasing upper-level energy from an approaching longwave trough, 
and lift from the cold front, and we could end up seeing more 
numerous showers in the afternoon than CAMs suggest.  

After the cold front passes, showers will clear late Thursday 
evening with clouds clearing west to east Thursday night. Event rain 
totals from Wednesday night through Thursday will likely lay closer 
to 0.5" in the far interior while southern areas near the coast will 
likely lie below 0.25". No concerns for flooding. 

A few high clouds may remain Thursday night as surface high pressure 
under a weak upper-level ridge takes over again and sticks around 
into Friday. Cold air advection under NW flow keeps highs on Friday 
closer to average in the mid/low-40s. 

&&

.LONG TERM /FRIDAY NIGHT THROUGH TUESDAY/...
Mid level trough pattern takes shape over the Northeast Friday night 
through the weekend. This eventually transitions to more of a zonal 
pattern during the first half of next week.

At the surface, high pressure is moving offshore with low pressure 
approaching from the north and west Friday night. A warm front moves 
northeast across the region with winds becoming more southerly and 
increasing after the frontal passage. Low temperatures 
are likely to be set Friday evening with temperatures slowly rising 
late Friday night into early Saturday morning. A cold front then 
moves across the region Saturday afternoon into early Saturday 
evening.

There will be chances of precipitation, mainly in the form of plain 
rain, across mostly northern portions of the region late Friday 
night through Saturday evening. Some snow showers will be possible 
at the onset as well as after the cold front passage.

Weather then remains dry for the rest of Saturday night through 
early next week. Next chance for precipitation arrives Tuesday night 
into middle part of next week with mainly rain but with some 
possible mixing with snow for the interior.

&&

.AVIATION /09Z WEDNESDAY THROUGH SUNDAY/...
High pressure builds in through this afternoon. A warm front 
approaches tonight and moves through by early Thursday.

Mainly VFR through this afternoon with some localized MVFR potential 
near KGON with localized fog before daybreak. Otherwise, rain 
showers will become more probable tonight, eventually becoming 
likely for more northern terminals such as KSWF. There will be some 
potential for MVFR and perhaps even localized IFR.

Winds generally NW near 5-10 kt through today, become more variable 
in direction and decrease this evening to near 5 kts or less. Then 
winds become more SE-S near 5-10 kt late tonight into early 
Thursday. Some wind gusts near 15-20 kt are forecast today.

     NY Metro (KEWR/KLGA/KJFK/KTEB) TAF Uncertainty...

Gusts may be occasional this morning and afternoon.

Timing of showers and MVFR tonight may be off by several hours.

.OUTLOOK FOR 06Z THURSDAY THROUGH SUNDAY...

Wednesday night: Showers likely. MVFR or lower possible.

Thursday: Showers with MVFR or lower, mainly in the morning and 
early afternoon. VFR returns late. S-SW winds G15-20 kt in the 
afternoon. Winds shift to the WNW at night with G15-20 kt. 

Friday: Mainly VFR. WNW wind gusts near 20kt. 

Saturday: VFR. S-SW winds G15-20 kt. 

Sunday: VFR. NW winds G15-20 kt. 

Detailed information, including hourly TAF wind component forecasts, 
can be found at: https:/www.weather.gov/zny/n90

&&

.MARINE...
Sub-SCA conditions on all waters through early Thursday.

Increasing S flow ahead of an approaching cold front will bring SCA 
conditions to the ocean waters by late Thursday morning. 25 kt gusts 
are possible along with 7-9 foot seas. 

SCAs are issued for ocean waters, southshore bays, and E LI Sound 
entrance. See MWW for more details. 

SCA conditions will continue overnight Thursday. Near-25 kt gusts 
are possible on all waters on Friday while 5-7 ft seas linger on the 
ocean waters.

Possible lingering SCA seas on the ocean Friday night with otherwise 
below SCA seas for other marine zones. Seas build Saturday with more 
widespread SCA level seas on the ocean which extend into Saturday 
night. These could linger on the ocean for Sunday as well. 
Otherwise, other marine areas are below SCA seas and Sunday night, 
all forecast waters expected to be below SCA levels.

Wind gusts SCA levels forecast on the ocean Friday night and much of 
the weekend. Otherwise, non-ocean zones are below SCA level
gusts.

&&

.HYDROLOGY...
Event rain totals from Wednesday night through Thursday will likely 
lay closer to 0.5" in the far interior while southern areas near the 
coast will likely lie below 0.25". No hydrologic concerns.

No issues expected Friday night through early next week.

&&

.OKX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CT...None.
NY...None.
NJ...None.
MARINE...Small Craft Advisory from 7 AM to 7 PM EST Thursday for ANZ332.
     Small Craft Advisory from 10 AM to 4 PM EST Thursday for 
     ANZ345.
     Small Craft Advisory from 4 AM Thursday to 6 AM EST Friday for 
     ANZ350-353-355.

&&

$$

SYNOPSIS...JM/BR
NEAR TERM...BR
SHORT TERM...BR
LONG TERM...JM
AVIATION...JM
MARINE...JM/BR
HYDROLOGY...JM/BR
