888 
FXUS61 KOKX 162332
AFDOKX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service New York NY
732 PM EDT Wed Apr 16 2025

.SYNOPSIS...
A series of weak surface troughs move through the area into 
Thursday. High pressure then builds overhead Thursday night
and then offshore on Friday. A warm front lifts north of the 
area late Friday into Friday night. A cold front moves through
Saturday night into Sunday morning followed by brief high 
pressure. Then, a frontal system impacts the region late Monday 
through late Tuesday. High pressure then follows into Wednesday.

&&

.NEAR TERM /THROUGH THURSDAY/...
The forecast remains on track. Only minor adjustments were made
with this evening update. 

An upper trough will continue pushing offshore tonight. Closed
low over southeast Canada will also continue to spin as it 
slowly lifts towards the Maritimes into Thursday. This pattern 
will keep the region between building high pressure to the west 
and the aforementioned low pressure to our northeast. The low 
begins to weaken as it moves over the Maritimes late Thursday 
allowing the high pressure to begin settling over the area. 

Breezy WNW winds will continue tonight although the 25-35 mph
gusts occurring for much of the day will weaken this evening. 
Gusts 20-25 mph are possible the first half of the night, but 
should weaken further early Thursday morning. The boundary does 
not decouple with the gradient in place so sustained winds will 
likely remain up and be around 10 mph for most spots. Moisture 
trapped beneath a subsidence inversion around 4-5 kft diminishes
overnight. The broken stratocu associated with the subsidence 
inversion should scatter out leading to mostly clear skies 
overnight. Lows will fall into the middle 30s inland and upper 
30s and low 40s closer to the coast. Frost is not expected where
the growing season has begun due to the winds remaining up and 
temperatures struggling to fall into the mid 30s. 

WNW-NW flow will continue on Thursday, but the air mass begins
to moderate. Mixing does not appear as deep, but models have 
struggled all year with the depth of the mixed layer and 
resulting winds. Thursday looks like another day where winds 
will likely be a bit stronger than modeled, which will also lead
to slightly warmer temperatures. Have gone closer to the NBM 
90th percentile for temperatures, which yields highs in the 
lower 60s for most spots. Sustained winds 10-15 mph with gusts 
20-25 mph look likely, especially in the late morning and 
afternoon. Winds will start subsiding late in the day as the 
pressure gradient relaxes due to the high pressure nearing the 
region. Mostly clear skies are expected for Thursday.

&&

.SHORT TERM /THURSDAY NIGHT THROUGH FRIDAY/...
Ridging will build both aloft and at the surface Thursday night.
Winds should be weak under clear skies and a dry air mass. This
will set the stage for ideal radiational cooling conditions 
outside the NYC metro. Lows look to fall into the lower 30s 
inland and middle to upper 30s most elsewhere. Temperatures will
likely remain in the 40s in the NYC metro. The LI Pine Barrens 
should also bottom out around 30 degrees, where the growing 
season has already begun. Some patchy frost has been included 
here for now, but confidence in widespread freezing temperatures
is low for any headline at this time. 

Ridging will continue to build over the eastern US on Friday.
The surface high will shift offshore through the day setting up
a southerly return flow. A weak shortwave is expected to 
traverse around the periphery of the ridge which should send a 
warm front towards the area late in the day. The lower levels 
should remain dry, but mid and upper level moisture increase in 
the afternoon. Model consensus PoPs have largely remained around
20 percent across the interior late in the day, but overall 
mainly dry conditions will continue. The southerly flow will 
hold temperatures close to seasonable levels across Long Island 
and Southern CT. Temperatures across portions of NYC, NE NJ, and
Lower Hudson Valley should rise into the middle and upper 60s.

&&

.LONG TERM /FRIDAY NIGHT THROUGH WEDNESDAY/...
Key Messages:

 * Warm temperatures Friday night into Saturday with highs in  
   the 70s to low-80s.

 * Slight chance of showers ahead of cold front Saturday evening 
   into early Saturday night.

 * Average temperatures and dry weather into Sunday under brief high 
   pressure. 

 * Additional showers possible late Monday into late Tuesday with a 
   frontal system, but uncertainty remains. 

An upper-level ridge will be in place Friday night into
Saturday with a warm front moving north of the area. This keeps
us warm- sectored Friday night into Saturday with strong warm 
air advection. Lows will much warmer Friday night, as a result, 
in the mid-50s to upper-40s. Well above average highs are 
expected on Saturday in the low-80s to 70s. Mainly dry weather 
on Friday night, but that may change by late Saturday into 
Saturday night. 

Low pressure that brought a warm front through the area will 
eventually track into eastern Quebec bringing a cold front
through the area Saturday night into Sunday morning. This will 
bring a quick chance of showers and bring down temperatures on 
Sunday. Previously, there was quite a bit of disagreement on the
cold front timing, with some guidance bringing it in Saturday 
night and other guidance bringing the cold front in on Sunday 
night or even Monday night. Now the 12Z GFS/GDPS/ECMWF are in 
agreement on the front pushing through by or during Sunday 
morning. It appears a longwave trough moving in through southern
Canada will help push this front all the way through and to the
south of our area. It looks like the 13Z deterministic NBM was 
still in favor of the later timing of the front, so blended in 
some NBM 50th for highs to steer away from this bias. 

This brings Sunday's highs down into the 60s. Its important to
note that there is still a chance, although smaller now, that 
the front could come in later than Sunday morning. Should this 
occur, such as what the 12Z ICON thinks, would lead to warmer 
temperatures on Sunday that currently forecast.

PWATs climb to 1.4-1.5" ahead of the cold front Saturday evening
and early night with increased dewpoints. Isolated to scattered
light showers are possible during this timeframe before 
moisture drops fast in response to the approaching and passing 
cold front. 

Monday through Wednesday is filled with much uncertainty. All 
available 12Z guidance diverges and brings different solutions.
In general, late Monday through late Tuesday a frontal system 
is expected to impact us and bring a chance for showers. Timing,
placement, and magnitude still vary. Some guidance bring a low 
over the area, others have a low pass northwest with another low
developing at the coast along a front. Went with a general NBM 
blend for this time frame. High pressure will likely settle in 
following the frontal system, which would be timed for 
Wednesday.

&&

.AVIATION /00Z THURSDAY THROUGH MONDAY/...
High pressure builds in from the west through Thursday, and 
settles just to the south Thursday night.

VFR through the TAF period. 

Gusty NW winds gradually diminish through the evening, and may
back to more WNW at the outlying terminals. Gusts are likely to
end at the outlying terminals around or just after 05Z, with
gusts possibly ending or becoming more occasional at the NYC
metro terminals. WNW winds increase to around 15kt with gusts
20-25kt by early Thursday morning, and back more to the west
during the afternoon. Toward the end of the forecast winds and
gusts diminish, with the outlying terminals possibly losing the
gusts around 23Z. And in the metro area gusts end by 02Z Friday.


 ...NY Metro (KEWR/KLGA/KJFK/KTEB) TAF Uncertainty...

No unscheduled amendments expected.

.OUTLOOK FOR 00Z FRIDAY THROUGH MONDAY...

Thursday night: VFR.

Friday: VFR. A slight chance of showers late afternoon across the NW 
and N interior. S winds G15-20kt.

Saturday: Mainly VFR. Chance of showers, mainly NW interior. SW 
winds G20-25kt.

Sunday: VFR. NW wind gusts 15-20kt possible.

Monday: VFR early, then sub VFR late day and at night with a chance 
of showers.

Detailed information, including hourly TAF wind component forecasts, 
can be found at: https:/www.weather.gov/zny/n90

&&

.MARINE...
Gusty WNW winds will continue on the waters tonight, but
should begin subsiding below 25 kt on the non ocean waters. SCA
gusts may continue on the ocean until late tonight. Ocean seas 
will also gradually subside below 5 ft by day break Thursday. No
changes were made to the ongoing SCA headlines. Winds may still
gust 15-20 kt on Thursday, but will remain below SCA levels. 
Weak flow Thursday night into early Friday will continue to lead
to conditions below SCA levels. Winds and seas begin building 
late Friday with potential of SCA conditions Friday evening. 
These conditions will continue through Saturday evening. 

Thereafter, winds will be below SCA levels on all waters. Waves
on ocean waters climb to 6-8 feet Friday night and remain there
through Saturday. Saturday night, ocean waters may have 5 ft 
waves linger through Sunday afternoon before dropping below 5 
ft. Thereafter, waves will be below SCA levels on all waters.

&&

.FIRE WEATHER...
An SPS will be issued this evening for Thursday for the Lower
Hudson Valley, New York City Metro, and Long Island due to 
an elevated threat of wildfire spread. This is collaborated 
with neighboring WFOs and NY State land manager due to drying 
fuels, gusty WNW-NW winds 20-25 mph, and RH values falling to 
25-30 percent.

&&

.HYDROLOGY...
There are no hydrologic concerns through the middle of next
week.

&&

.OKX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CT...None.
NY...None.
NJ...None.
MARINE...Small Craft Advisory until 2 AM EDT Thursday for ANZ331-332-
     335-338-340-345.
     Small Craft Advisory until 6 AM EDT Thursday for ANZ350-353-
     355.

&&

$$

SYNOPSIS...BR/DS
NEAR TERM...BR/DS
SHORT TERM...DS
LONG TERM...BR
AVIATION...MET
MARINE...BR/DS
FIRE WEATHER...
HYDROLOGY...BR/DS
