788 
FXUS61 KOKX 050549
AFDOKX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service New York NY
149 AM EDT Thu Jun 5 2025

.SYNOPSIS...
High pressure based in the Atlantic remains but will gradually
weaken through Thursday night. A series of frontal systems affect
the region Friday through Wednesday.

&&

.NEAR TERM /UNTIL 6 AM THIS MORNING/...
Smoke aloft expected to continue moving east, eventually east 
of the area by tonight according to HRRR.

For tonight, high pressure remains offshore but weakens. Sky
conditions initially are mostly clear but an increase in clouds
is expected overnight. Guidance not indicating too much in the
way of low level clouds or fog overnight into early Thursday.
Cloud increase will be upper level clouds. With surface flow
remaining SW and the cloud increase, used consensus of short
term guidance for a relatively warmer solution. Lows tonight
into early Thursday stay mainly in the 60s.

&&

.SHORT TERM /6 AM THIS MORNING THROUGH 6 PM FRIDAY/...
High pressure remains offshore based in the Atlantic but
continues to weaken. Areas of weak low pressure approach from
the south and west. Clouds will increase in coverage Thursday
and Thursday night.

SW flow continues with warm air advection also continuing. 850mb
temperatures are forecast to reach slightly higher values than
the previous day. SW flow will be relatively higher along the
coast with more gusts.

Forecast highs were from the NBM ranging from the 70s to near 80 
across Eastern Long Island to upper 80s to near 90 for interior
and within NYC Metro. Dewpoints are on a rising trend as well,
with values in the 60s. Some daytime mixing is expected with the
SW flow to limit how high the dewpoints reach. Heat indices at
most stay mainly in the lower 90s. This stays well under heat
advisory thresholds.

With the approaching cold front and increasing instability,
there could be a few showers and thunderstorms to the north and
west of NYC in the mid afternoon into early evening. This is 
indicated by several CAMs as well.

Any showers or thunderstorms are expected to diminish by mid to
late evening as the forcing will be weak and instability will
diminish with temperatures cooling. However, the airmass will
not change much as winds remain southerly along the coastal
areas and for the interior become northerly but stay quite
light. Forecast lows are also from NBM, ranging from lower 60s
to lower 70s.

&&

.LONG TERM /FRIDAY NIGHT THROUGH WEDNESDAY/...
An active long term period is expected as one upper trough passes 
mainly to the north Friday night into Saturday. A weak ridge 
quickly passes through during Sunday, with the flow mainly remaining 
zonal across the region. Another, more amplified, trough affects the 
region Monday into the midweek period. A brief dry period is 
possible Sunday night into Monday. Otherwise unsettled weather is 
expected. With the initial trough passing mainly to the north 
Saturday, and increased humidity and precipitable water, there the 
potential for periods of heavy rainfall across the interior, with 
the best instability, and upslope flow. See the hydrology section 
for details. Followed the deterministic NBM for the extended
period.

&&

.AVIATION /06Z THURSDAY THROUGH MONDAY/...
High pressure remains offshore today.

VFR conditions are forecast through the TAF period. Can't rule
out a shower or thunderstorm tonight at KSWF, but not enough
confidence to include in TAF at this time.

SW winds under 10kt through the morning push, followed by
sea breezes late morning/early afternoon. Winds increase closer
to 10kt in the afternoon, but a little stronger for KLGA and
KJFK. Winds become lighter this evening, veering more SW.

 ...NY Metro (KEWR/KLGA/KJFK/KTEB) TAF Uncertainty... 

Sea breeze timing may be off by 1-2 hours. Sea breeze
potentially meanders within a few miles of KEWR for a few hours
this afternoon - winds could potentially prevail SW, SE or
vary between the two directions during this time. KTEB
potentially shifts more southerly for a few hours this
afternoon.

.OUTLOOK FOR 06Z FRIDAY THROUGH MONDAY... 

Late tonight: VFR.

Friday: Possible MVFR/IFR with chance of showers/tstms. 
Possible brief MVFR/IFR east of NYC terminals early Friday 
morning in fog/stratus. 

Friday night: Possible MVFR/IFR with chance of showers/tstms. 
Possible brief MVFR/IFR east of NYC terminals early Friday 
morning in fog/stratus. 

Saturday: Possible MVFR/IFR with showers likely. Chance of 
tstms. Patchy fog early Saturday.

Sunday: Possible MVFR/IFR with a chance of showers.

Monday: VFR initially, then possible showers with MVFR 
possible afternoon into night.

Detailed information, including hourly TAF wind component 
forecast, can be found at: https:/www.weather.gov/zny/n90

&&

.MARINE...
All waters have below SCA criteria conditions in the forecast 
through tonight. The pressure gradient overall will not be that
tight with wind gusts Thursday afternoon only to near 20 kt. 
Ocean seas max height in the forecast through Thursday night is 
4 ft.

Winds and seas remain below SCA levels across the forecast 
waters Friday night. With a south to southeast flow Friday night
through Saturday, ahead of an approaching frontal system, ocean
seas likely build to 5 feet by late Saturday, and remain 
elevated into late Saturday night. By late Saturday night and 
into Sunday winds diminish and become east to northeast, and 
ocean seas fall below 5 feet by early Sunday. Winds and seas 
then remain below advisory levels through Monday night.

&&

.HYDROLOGY...
No hydrologic concerns through Thursday night as much of the
timeframe is expected to be dry. Showers and thunderstorms
forecast for Thursday afternoon into early Thursday evening
could deliver a quick downpour but will be temporally and
spatially limited. Coverage of convection just isolated to
widely scattered and just north and west of NYC.

No hydrologic concerns through Friday. Thereafter, with an 
increasingly humid airmass in place, layer PW gradually increase
to 1 to 1.75 inches during Saturday, and then remains over 1 
inch into the beginning of next week. Thunderstorms that do 
develop have the potential of producing heavy rainfall, 
especially Saturday. The best chances of thunderstorms is across
the Lower Hudson Valley, and into Northeastern New Jersey, 
where upslope will enhance rainfall. This area is where there is
the potential for minor flooding in low lying, urban, and poor 
drainage areas.

&&

.OKX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CT...Air Quality Alert from 11 AM this morning to 11 PM EDT this 
     evening for CTZ005>012.
NY...Air Quality Alert from 11 AM this morning to 11 PM EDT this 
     evening for NYZ067>075-078>081-176>179.
NJ...None.
MARINE...None.

&&

$$

AVIATION...JC
