959 
FXUS61 KOKX 051141
AFDOKX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service New York NY
741 AM EDT Sat Apr 5 2025

.SYNOPSIS...
A warm front pushes in early today, then stalls over/near the 
area until a cold front pushes in Sunday morning. The cold front
stall nearby to the south Sunday afternoon. A wave of low 
pressure tracks through along the stalled boundary Sunday night 
and exits east Monday. A secondary cold front moves through late
Monday night into early Tuesday. High pressure builds for mid 
week before pushing offshore Thursday. A frontal system may 
approach late on Friday.

&&

.NEAR TERM /THROUGH TONIGHT/...
A weak low pressure system in the Ohio River Valley tracks into 
southern Ontario today into early tonight before exiting into 
northeast Canada early Sunday. This low pressure system brings a 
warm front through the area this morning into this afternoon. The 
warm front is expected to stall over the area or just to the north.

The warm front will lead to increased moisture and a source of lift 
for showers throughout the day. Most of these showers will occur 
mid/late morning into early evening, tracking mainly west to east 
and are expected to be scattered to numerous in coverage. 

As the stalled front lingers, another round of showers are expected 
Sunday night. 00Z CAMs are in agreement, introducing increased 
instability late this evening into tonight. Some thunderstorms are 
possible. Given the enhanced nature of thunderstorms and available 
moisture, could see a brief moderate to heavy downpour, but not 
expecting any flooding issues given the quick progression of the 
system. Total QPF today into tonight looks to be around 0.5", but 
could see isolated higher totals closer to 1-1.5" in any 
thunderstorms tonight. 

00Z CAMs also agree on fog advecting in over Long Island and 
possibly into coastal locations along the LI Sound and NJ coast
tonight. 

High temperatures today should reach the low-50s in the afternoon, 
with lows tonight not too far off in the low to upper-40s.

&&

.SHORT TERM /SUNDAY THROUGH MONDAY/...
A cold front will push in Sunday morning ending most shower 
activity in the morning and clearing out the fog. It appears 
most available guidance agree on the cold front being weak and 
stalling nearby, over the area or just to the south. This means 
isolated to spotty showers are still possible on Sunday.

A wave of low pressure will track along the stalled front and 
over the region Sunday night. Showers will be numerous to 
widespread with this system aided by PWATs peaking around 1.75",
positive vorticity advection from a deepening longwave trough 
over the Great Lakes, and being located within the upper-level 
divergent right entrance region of a jet streak to our north. 
Temperatures should be warm enough for mainly liquid precip, but
its possible some snow could mix in in the far interior late 
Sunday night into early Monday morning, if temperatures are able
to drop low enough. 

This wave of low pressure will exit Monday morning. Isolated to
spotty showers may still occur on Monday, but not much rain is 
expected as we lay between, but far enough away, a developing 
surface low along a shortwave to the south and another surface 
low to the northwest embedded at the base of a longwave trough.

Temperatures on Sunday should warm to the mid/upper-50s prior 
to the cold front. Sunday night will be cold with lows in the 
low-40s to low-30s. Monday follows suit with highs in the 
mid/upper-40s.

&&

.LONG TERM /MONDAY NIGHT THROUGH FRIDAY/...
A secondary cold front moving through late Monday night into 
early Tuesday will usher in a cold airmass for the middle of the
week, with temperatures 5 to 10 degrees below normal Tuesday 
through Wednesday night. Temperatures return to more seasonal 
levels for Thursday and Friday. The coldest night will be 
Tuesday night with freezing temperatures expected across the 
region, which has trended slightly colder since Friday. 
Frost/freeze headlines will be possible for Tuesday night with 
the growing season having begun in the New York City metro area.
There will be a chance of showers with the passage of the cold 
front Monday night into Tuesday, and then much of the week will 
be dry as high pressure builds in, and moves offshore late 
Thursday. Mainly followed the deterministic NBM guidance, except
for winds and gusts Tuesday, going toward the 75th percentile 
as gusty west to northwest winds are likely during the day with 
strong cold advection. The next chance of precipitation will be 
late next week into the weekend as a frontal system may impact 
the region as an upper and surface low approach. A blocking 
pattern sets up with the trough over the east coast, and the 
upper low closing off, and unsettled weather may remain through 
next weekend.

&&

.AVIATION /12Z SATURDAY THROUGH WEDNESDAY/...
A warm front approaches from the south through today, slowing
its northward movement, and possible becoming nearly stationary
in the vicinity tonight.

VFR this morning with intermittent light rain showers.
Conditions may begin to lower to MVFR by late morning with rain,
however, more likely during the afternoon, lowering to IFR by 
mid afternoon. LIFR by this evening and continuing into tonight
with rain continuing.

Winds E/SE around 15 kt, with gusts 20-25 kt. Gusts have become
more frequent and included in the forecast. The SE/E winds 
diminish late afternoon, and likely become light and variable at
all the terminals this evening. Low confidence in the wind 
direction and speeds especially by late afternoon into tonight
and will depend on the timing and placement of the warm front.


 ...NY Metro (KEWR/KLGA/KJFK/KTEB) TAF Uncertainty...

Low confidence on the timing of lowering conditions this 
morning into the evening, and could be several hours off from 
TAF as conditions and timing will be dependent on the warm 
front. Expect LIFR early this evening into the overnight. There
is a chance of LIFR .


.OUTLOOK FOR 12Z SUNDAY THROUGH WEDNESDAY...

Sunday: IFR/LIFR with light rain and fog across Long Island and
southeastern Connecticut early, then improving to VFR. For the
NYC metro terminals and west, IFR is possible until around 13Z,
then becoming VFR. Winds NW gusts around 20 kt during the day.
MVFR to IFR returns Sunday night at all the terminals, with 
rain showers.

Monday: Rain showers mainly early with MVFR possible. Otherwise 
mainly VFR.

Tuesday: VFR. A slight chance of rain showers in the morning for the 
terminals east of New York City. W-NW wind gusts near 20-25 kt.

Wednesday: VFR.

Detailed information, including hourly TAF wind component forecasts, 
can be found at: https:/www.weather.gov/zny/n90

&&

.MARINE...
Winds may exceed 25 kt on ocean waters mid-morning today into this 
evening from a passing warm front. A SCA is in place on ocean waters 
for this. Winds tonight will be below SCA criteria, but waves may 
not be. Waves will build to 5 ft on ocean waters, but will last 
longer on eastern ocean waters into tonight. SCAs are timed for 
this. 

Sunday into Monday, SCA criteria will not be met on most waters 
except ocean waters where 5 ft waves remain a possibility. 

Ocean seas remain elevated at SCA levels Monday night with the non 
ocean waters below advisory. Then during the day Tuesday northwest 
wind gusts increase to SCA levels across the forecast waters in the 
wake of a secondary cold front. Winds and seas remain at SCA levels 
into Tuesday evening, and then begin to subside west to east as high 
pressure builds into the waters, falling below advisory levels on 
the non ocean waters by late Tuesday night. Ocean seas east of 
Moriches Inlet may remain at SCA levels into Wednesday morning. Sub 
advisory conditions return by midday Wednesday, and remain below 
into Thursday.

&&

.HYDROLOGY...
There are no hydrologic concerns through next week.

&&

.OKX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CT...None.
NY...None.
NJ...None.
MARINE...Small Craft Advisory until 8 AM EDT Sunday for ANZ350.
     Small Craft Advisory until 10 PM EDT this evening for ANZ353.
     Small Craft Advisory until 6 PM EDT this evening for ANZ355.

&&

$$

SYNOPSIS...BR/MET
NEAR TERM...BR
SHORT TERM...BR
LONG TERM...MET
AVIATION...MET
MARINE...BR/MET
HYDROLOGY...BR/MET
