770 
FXUS61 KOKX 091740
AFDOKX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service New York NY
140 PM EDT Mon Jun 9 2025

.SYNOPSIS...
A warm front slowly lifts towards the area today and pushes across 
the area tonight, followed by a slow cold front passage Tuesday 
afternoon into night. High pressure then builds in on Wednesday 
and remains near the region through early Friday. Another frontal
system may affect the region late Friday and lingers into the 
weekend.

&&

.NEAR TERM /THROUGH TONIGHT/...
A warm front pushes north through the Mid-Atlantic today and is 
progged to be at our doorstep near sundown. 500mb shortwave lift 
passes through this morning, followed by 850-700mb shortwave lift 
this afternoon, but with more shallow moisture. So while there will 
be chance of showers throughout the day, any shower activity becomes 
generally less likely and lighter in intensity this afternoon. The 
cloud cover and an onshore flow will keep high temperatures below 
normal, ending up generally around 70 across the area.

The warm front slowly lifts through the area tonight, meanwhile a 
cold front approaches from the west. The warm front will be working 
with shallow moisture, so any rainfall from this should be very 
light or drizzle. Moisture then deepens west to east late at night 
as the cold front nears. Areas mainly west of the Hudson could get 
some rainfall from this towards sunrise. PVA and elevated 
instability could also lead to a thunderstorm for this area as
well.

&&

.SHORT TERM /TUESDAY THROUGH WEDNESDAY NIGHT/...
The cold front will move slowly east across the forecast area 
through Tuesday evening and may even dissipate over the eastern 
zones late at night. A few rounds of shortwave lift pass through, 
and synoptic lift increases further in the afternoon with the right 
rear quadrant of an upper jet streak entering the region. 

Showers likely across the entire area during the day, with chances 
lowering generally from mid-afternoon on. Instability remains 
primarily elevated and probably not enough for severe thunderstorm 
activity. As for hydrologic impacts, all of the ingredients for 
improving chances of heavy downpours don't really come together. The 
greater instability will be generally over western zones and the 
higher PWATs will be over the eastern zones, and influence from the 
the approaching jet streak would appear to be mitigated by its late 
arrival. PWATs will be exceeding climatology nevertheless, and the 
steering flow doesn't look particularly strong with some backbuilding 
cell potential, so can't completely rule out isolated instances of 
flash flooding. WPC continues to have the entire area under a 
marginal risk of excessive rainfall. Impacts are likely limited to 
minor urbanized/poor drainage and small stream flooding.

Weak high pressure then builds in for Wednesday with the flow aloft 
slightly cyclonic to zonal. Looks like a mostly sunny day ahead with 
a light westerly wind in the morning increasing from the SW in the 
afternoon. This should allow most of the area to have high 
temperatures in the 80s.

&&

.LONG TERM /THURSDAY THROUGH MONDAY/...
Stuck fairly close to the NBM/previous forecast though the long term 
period. 

The long term starts off with high pressure over the region which 
remains in place through at least early Friday. Expect the warm 
temperatures peaking on Thursday with highs in the 80s and lower 
90s. 

By Friday into next weekend, a faster moving upper low pivots 
through eastern Canada, bringing another round of precipitation 
chances to the area through next weekend, along with cooler 
temperatures. Expect a chance of rain each day. Highs over the 
weekend will be in the upper 60s and 70s.

&&

.AVIATION /18Z MONDAY THROUGH SATURDAY/...
Predominantly LIFR-IFR conditions are expected to persist 
overnight in response to a warm frontal boundary very slowly 
moving through the area. Persistent light onshore flow will 
also contribute to the development of fog overnight, possibly 
dense with visibilities 1/2 SM or less.

Showers and thunderstorms are then expected to develop right
around the morning push moving from west to east, with the
heaviest activity between about 14-18Z. Rainfall may be heavy at
times maintaining reduced visibilities across the airspace. As
the activity diminishes into the afternoon, ceilings and
visibilities will gradually improve to MVFR-VFR. A cold front 
then approaches later in the evening, but convective activity is
not expected to be as widespread.

Winds will primarily be light from the east to east-southeast
until the front approaches from the west Tuesday evening,
allowing winds to veer to the west-southwest. Occasional gusts
may be possible through 20-21Z this evening for LGA, ISP, BDR,
and GON.

...NY Metro (KEWR/KLGA/KJFK/KTEB) TAF Uncertainty... 

Amendments possible throughout the entire TAF period for changing 
flight categories especially with ongoing shower and drizzle activity.


.OUTLOOK FOR 18Z WEDNESDAY THROUGH SATURDAY... 

Wednesday - Thursday: VFR with gusty W flow. 

Friday - Saturday: VFR except in scattered showers and 
thunderstorms.


Detailed information, including hourly TAF wind component forecasts, 
can be found at: https:/www.weather.gov/zny/n90

&&

.MARINE...
All waters remain below advisory thresholds for at least the next 
few days. Waves on the ocean likely remain mostly 3-4 feet through 
at least Tuesday morning with a weakening onshore flow. Guidance has 
trended lower regarding wave heights/swell for Tuesday afternoon 
through Wednesday, so it looks likely that seas prevail below 5 ft 
through this time. 

Conditions will then remain below SCA levels through Friday. 
Small craft conditions will be possible over the weekend as 
another frontal system moves across the area waters.

&&

.HYDROLOGY...
No hydrologic impacts are expected through tonight. Showers and 
thunderstorms during Tuesday look to produce a widespread 0.50" to 
1" of rain. Localized amounts of 1+" are possible. See the short 
term discussion above for potential impacts. 

No significant hydrologic issues are expected Wednesday through
Sunday.

&&

.TIDES/COASTAL FLOODING...
A moderate risk of rip currents is expected today. The moderate risk 
continues for Tuesday, although it could potentially be high for the 
ocean beaches of eastern Suffolk County.

&&

.OKX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CT...None.
NY...None.
NJ...None.
MARINE...None.

&&

$$

SYNOPSIS...BC/JC
NEAR TERM...JC
SHORT TERM...JC
LONG TERM...BC
AVIATION...BC/MD
MARINE...BC/JC
HYDROLOGY...BC/JC
TIDES/COASTAL FLOODING...
