563 
FXUS61 KOKX 100530
AFDOKX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service New York NY
130 AM EDT Mon Mar 10 2025

.SYNOPSIS...
High pressure builds south of the region through Monday. Local 
region in between lows southeast and north of the region for 
Tuesday. A cold front approaches late Tuesday and moves across 
late Tuesday night into early Wednesday. High pressure briefly 
builds Wednesday into Wednesday night before moving towards the 
Canadian Maritimes. Weak low pressure approaches Thursday into 
early Friday. Region will then be in between high pressure in 
the Western Atlantic and approaching developing low pressure to 
the west heading into next weekend.

&&

.NEAR TERM /UNTIL 6 AM THIS MORNING/...
Made adjustments to temperatures and dew points to reflect the
most recent observations. Winds have subsided fairly quickly in
typically cooler spots where radiational cooling has been able
to maximize. This has largely resulted in rapid drops in
temperature for interior and suburban locations. As a result,
dropped minimum temperatures tonight. It's possible temperatures
drop a bit more over the next several hours.

Later in the night, another jet max passes by so mixing should
limit radiational cooling and temperatures may jump back up a 
bit as it approaches.

&&

.SHORT TERM /6 AM THIS MORNING THROUGH 6 PM TUESDAY/...
Weak low pres tracking ewd across the Gulf of ME, along with NW
flow aloft, will be conducive to wly llvl flow thru most of the
day on Mon. This is a warm signal. As the flow aloft weakens 
17-20Z, the sea breeze should begin to overspread the coasts. 
This should still allow most areas to warm significantly thru 
the late mrng into the early aftn. Mixed down temps from h85 
then blended in the NBM to produce the high temp grid. Went a 
good deal abv the NBM for LI and parts of CT, bringing almost 
the entire cwa aoa 60 degrees. If the flow ends up a bit S of W,
or the sea breeze develops too quickly, these numbers will be 
too warm.

A dry airmass and broad subsidence should produce no pcpn and few 
clouds. There should be some cu invof the sea breeze.

Light sly flow Mon ngt with mainly skc. There could be enough return 
flow llvl moisture to allow for some shallow fog to develop. The 
prob is too low however attm to include in the fcst. Went with the 
NBM for temps.

&&

.LONG TERM /TUESDAY NIGHT THROUGH SUNDAY/...
Mainly dry through much of the long term. Possibilities for 
rain showers Thursday through Thursday night and a higher 
possibility for next weekend, especially for next Sunday. 
Temperatures overall are forecast to be above normal on average.

More amplified pattern develops for next weekend. Stronger low 
approaches with a strengthening cold front for next Sunday. 
Potential for heavy rain and gusty winds with strong meridional flow 
ahead of it. Last day of forecast period so there is more
uncertainty and exact timing and rainfall details will have 
variations from forecast to forecast. Overall this will have 
associated low confidence for the time being.

The consensus of numerical weather prediction models show upper
and mid level flow quasi-zonal for the local area much of the 
long term, with strengthening SW flow for next weekend. Region 
mainly in between northern and southern branches of the upper 
jet. Upper jet southern branch starts to move into the region 
for the latter half of next weekend.

At the surface, weak pressure gradient Tuesday in place across the 
area with the area in between systems. Low in Southeast Canada 
brings a cold front to the region late Tuesday into early Wednesday. 
Cold front expected to move across dry with a lack of available 
moisture.

High pressure from Great Lakes and Southeast Canada then briefly 
builds into the region Wednesday into Wednesday night. High pressure 
moves into the Canadian Maritimes Thursday. Weak low pressure 
associated with an inverted trough sets up Thursday across the 
region. The region will have more easterly flow. Possible rain 
showers in the forecast but just slight chance.

Warming trend for Friday into the weekend. Friday and Friday night 
forecast is dry but chances for rain showers increase for next 
weekend. Saturday appears to be mainly dry but likelihood increases 
substantially next Sunday for rain showers.

&&

.AVIATION /06Z MONDAY THROUGH FRIDAY/...
Another weak surface trough passes through on Monday morning, 
followed by weak high pressure.

VFR. SW and weaken to 10 kt or less overnight. Winds then shift 
to the W/NW Monday morning behind a surface trough passage. 
Winds then become more SSW/S Monday afternoon behind an expected
seabreeze before becoming light and variable overnight.

 ...NY Metro (KEWR/KLGA/KJFK/KTEB) TAF Uncertainty...

Timing of wind shifts may vary by 1-2 hours.

.OUTLOOK FOR 06Z TUESDAY THROUGH THURSDAY...

Monday Night: VFR.

Tuesday-Wednesday: VFR.

Thursday: MVFR or lower possible with E flow. Slight chance of 
showers. 

Friday: VFR.

Detailed information, including hourly TAF wind component forecasts, 
can be found at: https:/www.weather.gov/zny/n90

&&

.MARINE...
Cancelled SCA for all marine zones except for ocean east of Fire 
Island Inlet. Winds and seas are on a decreasing trend this evening 
before an upward trend overnight.

Residual 5 ft seas on the ocean, especially east of Fire Island 
Inlet, so the SCA remains in effect there through the day Monday.
Winds and seas go below SCA levels Monday night.

Sub-SCA conditions forecast for all waters Tuesday through Tuesday 
night. Non-ocean waters forecast to stay below SCA thereafter. 
Probable SCA conditions for the ocean Wednesday through Friday. 
All waters forecast to return to below SCA conditions Friday 
night.

&&

.HYDROLOGY...
There are no hydrologic concerns expected this week.

&&

.OKX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CT...None.
NY...None.
NJ...None.
MARINE...Small Craft Advisory until 6 PM EDT this evening for ANZ350-
     353.

&&

$$

SYNOPSIS...JMC/JM
NEAR TERM...JMC/MW
SHORT TERM...JMC
LONG TERM...JM
AVIATION...JP
MARINE...JMC/JM
HYDROLOGY...JMC/JM
