153 
FXUS61 KOKX 011156
AFDOKX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service New York NY
656 AM EST Wed Jan 1 2025

.SYNOPSIS...
Low pressure strengthens as it moves northeast of the region
towards Maine tonight and then into Canadian Maritimes by
Thursday. The low then retrogrades west into Southeast Canada
Thursday night into Friday. Meanwhile, across the local area,
weak high pressure will start to build in Thursday through
Thursday night before another frontal system approaches from the
west for late Friday. An associated cold front moves through 
Friday night. Weak high pressure builds in for the weekend. An 
area of low pressure passes to the south early next week.

&&

.NEAR TERM /UNTIL 6 PM THIS EVENING/...
Forecast mainly on track. Added some patchy fog for northern
parts of the region which is expected to dissipate later this
morning.

The main hazard and weather story for today will be the strong
winds expected to develop late this afternoon for the entire
region. A wind advisory remains in effect starting 3PM this
afternoon with gusts up to 50 mph forecast for the entire region.

Low pressure moves northeast and deepens through today. Pressure
gradient tightens rapidly this afternoon when the low deepens
more.

This will bring more cold air advection and very windy
conditions to the region. Westerly flow will make for drier low 
levels. Model BUFKIT data shows potential for higher winds to 
mix down late this afternoon than forecast. These would be gusts
developing from mixing down winds from the top of the mixed 
layer. Most gusts expected to be within 40 to 50 mph but some 
localized gusts up to 55 mph will be possible late this 
afternoon.

Due to some disturbance activity aloft with vorticity maxima 
and to the west of the deepening surface low, there will be 
additional lift and higher chances of showers, some of which 
could be snow showers across parts of the interior. The 
timeframe for this would be late afternoon into early evening.

&&

.SHORT TERM /6 PM THIS EVENING THROUGH FRIDAY/...
The main hazard and weather story is again the strong winds
tonight through much of Thursday evening. The wind advisory
remains in effect for the entire area until 10PM Thursday
evening for forecast of wind gusts up to 50 mph.

There may still be some lingering shower activity to start this
evening across northern parts of the region with otherwise dry
conditions. Dry conditions return for the entire local forecast
area overnight and remain dry through Friday.

850mb temperatures from forecast models continue to show a
declining trend for this short term time period. Likewise, high
temperatures are forecast to get progressively cooler looking at
Thursday and Friday compared to Wednesday.

Very steep pressure gradient remains for the region tonight
through Thursday evening. For this evening and with daytime
mixing Thursday, more peak gusts near 45 to 50 mph are expected.
Again, some locally higher gusts up to 55 mph are possible at
times. Then more of a decrease of this pressure gradient is 
forecast as low pressure fills in slightly and weak high 
pressure builds in from the west for Thursday night into Friday.
This will allow for winds to trend downward with time Thursday
night into Friday.

&&

.LONG TERM /FRIDAY NIGHT THROUGH TUESDAY/...
Key points include cold/blustery/mainly dry conditions until 
potentially early next week, with chances of snow. Uncertainty is 
high for early next week with resulting wide ranges of snowfall 
forecasts. Temperatures forecast to become more below normal through 
the weekend. The gusty winds will make it feel about ten degrees 
colder than the actual temperatures regarding the forecast high 
temperatures.

A longwave trough moves over the Eastern Seaboard late Friday, 
with the trough axis moving offshore late Friday night. A 
surface cold front is expected to move through Friday night. 
However, it looks to do so mainly dry. Thereafter, weak high 
pressure builds in at the surface as the trough departs for the 
remainder of the weekend, keeping the area dry. A southern 
stream trough approaches Sunday night with a weak area of low 
pressure from the central or south central US (given some 
uncertainty), and passes south of the area Monday night into 
Tuesday. Current model consensus it to take this low south of 
the area late Monday into Monday night. The area could see some 
snow on the northern fringes of this system, but there is still 
a great deal of uncertainty this far out, and stuck pretty close
to the NBM.

Temperatures should average below normal through the period.

&&

.AVIATION /12Z WEDNESDAY THROUGH SUNDAY/...
Low pressure over CT to start will gradually strengthen while
moving NE to the eastern New England coast this afternoon and
evening, then into New Brunswick Canada late tonight into
daytime Thu. 

Widely varying cond across the area to start, with
KJFK/KLGA/KGON VFR but with MVFR cigs nearby, KTEB MVFR,
KEWR/KISP/KBDR IFR, and KHPN/KSWF LIFR. With some daytime 
heating and as WSW-W winds gradually increase MVFR cigs should 
eventually prevail until a secondary cold fropa late this 
afternoon, with timing 20Z KSWF, 21Z NYC metros/KHPN, 22Z 
KBDR/KISP, 23Z KGON.

After fropa cigs should lift to VFR and W winds increase to 
15-25G30-35kt with some gusts 35-40 kt. These winds should 
diminish after the evening push to 15-20G25-30kt while VFR cigs
scatter out at most terminals. 

 ...NY Metro (KEWR/KLGA/KJFK/KTEB) TAF Uncertainty... 

AMD possible if initial VFR cond persist at KJFK/KLGA, or if IFR
cond persist at KEWR. G40kt possible from about 21Z-05Z. 

OUTLOOK FOR 12Z THURSDAY THROUGH SUNDAY...

Thursday: VFR. W winds G25-35kt with occasional G40kt. Winds
should diminish at night. 

Friday through Sunday: Mainly VFR. W winds G20-25kt. 

Detailed information, including hourly TAF wind component
forecasts, can be found at: https:/www.weather.gov/zny/n90

&&

.MARINE...
The main story for the marine forecast will be the increasingly
rough conditions expected as winds and seas increase in response
to increasing pressure gradient with strengthening low pressure
late today through Thursday going into the Canadian Maritimes.

With conditions below SCA thresholds, cancelled the SCA for all
marine zones but the ocean where SCA level seas are currently 
present. The SCA for the ocean will quickly transition to the 
gale warning this morning at 6AM. The non-ocean waters have 
their gale warning go into effect late this morning at 11AM. 
This was pushed up a few hours compared to previous forecast 
after noting some model BUFKIT soundings showed rapid increases 
of winds this morning. The gale warning for all waters goes 
until 10 PM Thursday evening and then for the ocean goes until 
1AM Friday. Thereafter, expecting widespread SCA conditions with
gusts closer to 30 kt for the rest of Thursday night and for 
Friday.

Winds diminish Friday night, but remain above 25 kt on the 
ocean, while non-ocean waters fall below 25 kt. An extended 
period of SCA for the weekend as gusts are forecast to be 25 to 
30 kt for most of the waters and seas on the ocean build to 5 to
7 ft through Saturday night, slowly diminishing on Sunday

&&

.HYDROLOGY...
Any precipitation, liquid equivalent, expected to stay under a
tenth of an inch in the short term through Friday.

Overall, no significant hydrologic issues are anticipated.

&&

.TIDES/COASTAL FLOODING...
Water levels may approach or touch minor flood thresholds in the 
most vulnerable locations along the south shore bays of Long Island, 
Jamaica Bay and parts of NY Harbor with the Wed AM high tide.

&&

.OKX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CT...Wind Advisory from 3 PM this afternoon to 10 PM EST Thursday 
     for CTZ005>012.
NY...Wind Advisory from 3 PM this afternoon to 10 PM EST Thursday 
     for NYZ067>075-078>081-176>179.
NJ...Wind Advisory from 3 PM this afternoon to 10 PM EST Thursday 
     for NJZ002-004-006-103>108.
MARINE...Gale Warning from 11 AM this morning to 10 PM EST Thursday for 
     ANZ331-332-335-338-340-345.
     Gale Warning until 1 AM EST Friday for ANZ350-353-355.

&&

$$

SYNOPSIS...JM/JP
NEAR TERM...JM
SHORT TERM...JM
LONG TERM...JP
AVIATION...BG
MARINE...JM/JP
HYDROLOGY...JM/JP
TIDES/COASTAL FLOODING...
