052 
FXUS61 KOKX 030926
AFDOKX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service New York NY
426 AM EST Mon Feb 3 2025

.SYNOPSIS...
A warm front moves farther northeast of the waters today. A cold
front moves across the waters late tonight. High pressure then 
builds in from the Great Lakes on Tuesday. This high pressure 
area will continue building in Tuesday night and center over the
area on Wednesday. A frontal system will approach Wednesday 
night and impact the area into Thursday evening. High pressure 
will then return for Thursday night into Friday night, then 
slide east on Saturday. Another frontal system will begin to 
approach Saturday afternoon and impact the area into Sunday. 

&&

.NEAR TERM /UNTIL 6 PM THIS EVENING/...
Precipitation has ended but still have quite a large part of 
the region with freezing or below temperatures so any untreated 
surfaces will still likely have some ice, creating slippery 
conditions. Special weather statement out to address this. 
Whole region forecast to be above freezing after 11AM. 

Otherwise, dry conditions are expected today along with low
level warm air advection. Mostly cloudy conditions will limit
the sensible heat transfer. Taking that into account, using
blend of NBM and MAV and MET guidance for high temperatures,
ranging mainly from low to mid 40s.

&&

.SHORT TERM /6 PM THIS EVENING THROUGH WEDNESDAY/...
For tonight, a cold front approaches from the north and west.
The cold front moves through late. Most of the shortwave energy
will be displaced well north of the region and mid level dry air
will keep conditions dry. 

Just expecting clouds to remain abundant with temperatures not 
dropping too much tonight as the boundary layer stays more mixed
and the clouds limit radiational cooling. Lows forecast range 
from the low to upper 30s.

For Tuesday, highs for the day are likely set in the morning
with post-frontal strengthening NW gusty flow then developing.
This will cause temperatures to be nearly steady late morning
into the early afternoon and then actually decrease for the
latter half of the afternoon. Took a blend of NBM and MAV and
MET guidance for high temperatures and manually lowered an extra
degree. Highs Tuesday range from the upper 30s to lower 40s,
slightly colder than the previous day.

High pressure continues to build in Tuesday night into
Wednesday. The high pressure area centers over the local region
on Wednesday. Dry conditions are expected to remain. Highs from
NBM on Wednesday and are much colder than previous few days,
only ranging from low to mid 30s for much of the area.

&&

.LONG TERM /WEDNESDAY NIGHT THROUGH SUNDAY/...
Well-advertised frontal system should begin to approach Wed night, 
with increasing PoP for snow throughout to start. Light 
accumulations expected, either side an inch most places and perhaps 
closer to 2 inches well inland west of the Hudson. As temps warm 
aloft expect a transition to mixed precip, with some light freezing 
rain on top of this snow late in NE NJ. Temps sfc/aloft warm further 
daytime Thu, with a change to plain rain during the morning hours, 
but not before a period of possible freezing rain for interior NE NJ 
and the lower Hudson Valley mainly along/NW of I-287 early Thu AM. 
Rain Thu afternoon should taper off Thu eve, with dry cond returning 
for late Thu night into Sat AM as strong high pressure moves across. 

Another frontal system will approach this weekend, beginning Sat 
afternoon and continuing into Sunday. Once again, with warmer air 
intruding aloft at first and then at the sfc, p-type initially 
should be all snow, with a change to mixed precip late Sat night 
into Sunday AM and all rain by Sunday afternoon. This system may 
have better potential for widespread advy snow/ice amts given higher 
forecast QPF. 

&&

.AVIATION /09Z MONDAY THROUGH FRIDAY/...
A warm front will lift through overnight. A cold front will approach 
from the west today and pass through tonight. 

Seeing IFR cigs inland impacting KSWF/KBDR, also MVFR cond at 
KTEB/KHPN/KGON, otherwise VFR to start. Prind are that these 
terminals should improve to VFR by 13Z-14Z. 

Winds either calm or light SW should pick up during the late morning 
to 5-8 kt and then back more southerly by mid afternoon. Winds start 
to shift back to the W-NW late behind a cold frontal passage. 

 ...NY Metro (KEWR/KLGA/KJFK/KTEB) TAF Uncertainty...

Unscheduled AMD possible for KTEB to adjust timing of MVFR cigs. 

.OUTLOOK FOR 06Z TUESDAY THROUGH FRIDAY... 

Late tonight: VFR. 

Tuesday: VFR. NW winds 15G20-25kt into the evening. 

Wednesday: VFR. 

Wednesday night: MVFR or lower cond in light snow, mixing with sleet 
late, also rain at KEWR/KJFK. 

Thursday: MVFR or lower cond as precip changes to freezing 
rain/sleet and then rain at KSWF, and to plain rain elsewhere. 
SW winds G20kt mainly in the afternoon. 

Thursday night: Rain ending. W winds G20kt late. 

Friday: VFR. NW winds G20-25kt. 

Detailed information, including hourly TAF wind component forecasts, 
can be found at: https:/www.weather.gov/zny/n90

&&

.MARINE...
Conditions on the waters remain below small craft advisory
thresholds through this afternoon. Then, conditions increase
with winds and seas tonight through Tuesday in response to a
tightening pressure gradient between low pressure well to the
north and east and high pressure to the north and west. A cold
front moves across late tonight. 

Ocean seas are first forecast to get SCA level seas along with
gusty SCA winds tonight, east of Fire Island Inlet. Then all
waters reach SCA thresholds for wind gusts Tuesday and probably
much of Tuesday night as well. Conditions return to below SCA
thresholds with weakening pressure gradient on Wednesday as 
high pressure moves overhead.

Increasing long fetch S flow ahead of an approaching frontal system 
should bring SCA cond to the ocean waters from Thu into Thu evening, 
with seas building to 4-6 ft in the morning and then to 5-8 ft at 
night, along with some 25-kt gusts. Following a cold frontal passage 
late Thu night, winds then shift W then NW, with all waters likely 
to see gusts 25-30 kt. These cond improve Fri afternoon on the non 
ocean waters, then finally on the ocean waters by midnight Fri night 
as winds then seas gradually diminish.

&&

.HYDROLOGY...
There are no hydrologic concerns through next weekend.

&&

.OKX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CT...None.
NY...None.
NJ...None.
MARINE...Small Craft Advisory from 9 AM to 6 PM EST Tuesday for ANZ331-
     332-335-338-340-345.
     Small Craft Advisory from 8 PM this evening to 6 PM EST 
     Tuesday for ANZ350-353.
     Small Craft Advisory from 6 AM to 6 PM EST Tuesday for ANZ355.

&&

$$

SYNOPSIS...BG/JM
NEAR TERM...JM
SHORT TERM...JM
LONG TERM...BG
AVIATION...BG
MARINE...BG/JM
HYDROLOGY...BG/JM
