626 
FXUS61 KOKX 071728
AFDOKX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service New York NY
1228 PM EST Tue Jan 7 2025

.SYNOPSIS...
Broad low pressure meanders over the Canadian Maritimes as a high
slowly builds in from the west through Friday. Low pressure 
passes to the south Saturday into Saturday night. High pressure 
returns for Sunday and the beginning of next week.

&&

.NEAR TERM /THROUGH TONIGHT/...
Winds have gusted a little higher than forecast in some areas, 
so winds have been raised slightly for the remainder of the day.
Wind Advisory criteria (gusts of 40 kts) might be met in a few 
locations (especially at higher elevations and locations near
coastlines, but is not expected to be widespread enough to 
prompt the issuance of a Wind Advisory. Aside from updated winds
in the forecast, the rest of the forecast remains on track. 

In the wake of low pressure that passed through the Mid Atlantic and 
offshore yesterday, drier conditions can be expected today. Broad 
low pressure remains near the Canadian Maritimes as surface 
high pressure centered over the Northern Plains begins to build 
south and west toward the region. Tightening pressure gradient 
between these two features kicks up winds, and they stay gusty 
over the next several days.

Mostly clear skies to start, with some stratocu developing at 
or under 5 kft into this afternoon as a weak shortwave swings 
thru New England. Absent a stray flurry or snow shower inland, 
conditions remain dry.

Soundings prog the mixed layer extending up to between 850 and 
900 mb today with winds near 40 kt at the top. With this, likely
to see gusts down to the surface between 35 and 45 mph at 
times. Isolated gusts toward 50 mph possible, but likely limited
in frequency and coverage, so no advisory warranted with this 
update.

Cold advection from the flow will keep temperatures generally 
sub freezing with wind chills in the teens thru the afternoon. 
Similarly tonight, air temperatures in teens and low 20s, but 
feeling closer to 0 at times.

&&

.SHORT TERM /WEDNESDAY THROUGH THURSDAY NIGHT/...
Brisk, cold, and dry conditions continue Wednesday and Thursday.

As high pressure treks east toward the region, the pressure 
gradient remains tight locally, and will maintain noticeably
blustery conditions, with gusts 30 to 40 mph likely both days.

While temperatures won't break records, we're entering the 
climatologically coldest period of the year, will still run 
about 10 degrees below normal through Thursday. Sub freezing 
high temperatures both days, with wind chills likely staying the
teens on the high side during the daytime, and near 0 at night.

&&

.LONG TERM /FRIDAY THROUGH MONDAY/...
High pressure ridge axis shifts through the region during Friday 
with dry conditions and high temperatures at or slightly below 
normal.

Models then continue to vary with the extent/timing of northern and 
southern stream phasing which would impact the track of the next low 
pressure system to potentially impact the forecast area during 
Saturday. Still anticipating the low center to track to our south, 
and at this point, guidance favors better chances of it passing 
south and east of the 40N/70W benchmark versus north and west of it. 
Thermal profiles with this setup would support an all-snow event, 
but still too early in the game to have much confidence regarding 
any potential accumulations. PoPs for late Friday night through 
Saturday night are capped at chance at this point.

High pressure otherwise builds back in for Sunday and weakens on 
Monday. Likely dry through the period. High temperatures generally 
in the 30s through the long term period.

&&

.AVIATION /18Z TUESDAY THROUGH SUNDAY/...
The terminals will remain between strong low pressure to the 
east and strong high pressure to the west. 

VFR. Occasional MVFR ceilings at 3kft possible at KSWF.

Strong WNW-NW winds 30-40kt through early this evening. Peak gusts 
around 45 kt are possible. Gusts weaken slightly this evening, 
becoming 25-30 kt overnight. Gusts increase after day break 
Wednesday with gusts 30-35 kt through the day. 

 ...NY Metro (KEWR/KLGA/KJFK/KTEB) TAF Uncertainty...

Direction will likely average near 310 magnetic, but may 
occasionally just north/right or south/left of it.

Gusts will likely vary a few kts from forecast at times. Peak gust 
around 45 kt into this evening.

OUTLOOK FOR 18Z WEDNESDAY THROUGH SUNDAY...

Wednesday Afternoon-Thursday: VFR. NW wind gusts 30-35kt.

Friday: VFR. NW wind gusts 20 kt in the morning.

Saturday: MVFR-IFR possible. Chance of snow. N-NE wind gusts 20 kt 
possible. NW gusts 20 kt possible. 

Sunday: Mainly VFR. 

Detailed information, including hourly TAF wind component forecasts, 
can be found at: https:/www.weather.gov/zny/n90 

&&

.MARINE...
Gale Warning now in effect on all waters thru at least early 
Wednesday morning. Gusty NNW flow 35 to 40 kt persists through 
this time. While the warning currently runs until Wed 6 AM on 
non ocean waters, it's possible this could be extended thru 
Wednesday afternoon. Otherwise, SCA conditions thereafter with 
occasional gale force gusts both Wednesday and Thursday. 
Similarly on the ocean, the warning in effect thru Wed 6 PM may 
need an extension through Thursday afternoon. Seas on the ocean 
generally between 5 and 8 ft thru this period, and as high as 5 
ft on the LI Sound. Spotty freezing spray also possible at times
through this period.

With a prolonged NW flow, SCA conditions will likely be ongoing
at the start of Friday morning with sub-advisory conditions 
anticipated by Friday night. Next chance of advisory conditions 
would then be Saturday night with an offshore storm.

&&

.HYDROLOGY...
No significant hydrologic issues anticipated through early next
week.

&&

.OKX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CT...None.
NY...None.
NJ...None.
MARINE...Gale Warning until 6 AM EST Wednesday for ANZ331-332-335-338-
     340-345.
     Gale Warning until 6 PM EST Wednesday for ANZ350-353-355.

&&

$$

SYNOPSIS...JC/DR
NEAR TERM...BR/DR
SHORT TERM...DR
LONG TERM...JC
AVIATION...DS
MARINE...JC/DR
HYDROLOGY...JC/DR
