540 
FXUS61 KOKX 111436
AFDOKX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service New York NY
1036 AM EDT Wed Jun 11 2025

.SYNOPSIS...
Weak high pressure remains south and west of the region this
afternoon through tonight. A cold front approaches Thursday and
moves across Thursday night into early Friday. This front then 
stalls out south of the area thereafter into early next week.

&&

.NEAR TERM /UNTIL 6 PM THIS EVENING/...
Weak mid level height rises work in this afternoon behind a
departing shortwave and jet max to the northeast into Eastern
Canada. A weak high builds in this afternoon but its center 
stays well south and west of the region. Expect plenty of 
sunshine, although some hints of haze will be evident from time
to time with smoke aloft working downstream from the Canadian 
wildfires. The relative peak of smoke aloft is progged by the 
HRRR and RRFS to be towards the late day and evening and 
centered more to the NW. HRRR near sfc smoke output appears 
overdone as usual, with RRFS likely closer to reality. Not 
expecting much, if any impact on sfc visibilities.

Sfc pressure gradient will be relatively weak, as a result 
daytime sea breeze circulations are expected to develop. More 
sun this afternoon and with 850mb temperatures increasing, 
warmer surface temperatures are expected overall. Used NBM and 
MAV/MET blend, with a range of high temperatures from the upper 
70s to middle 80s for a majority of the region.

&&

.SHORT TERM /6 PM THIS EVENING THROUGH FRIDAY NIGHT/...
Mid levels exhibit a slow ridging trend tonight through Thursday
night and then become nearly steady with more zonal flow Friday
through Friday night. At the surface, weak high pressure tonight
eventually gives way to an approaching cold front Thursday. This
cold front moves across Thursday night. The front then becomes
stalled out south of the region Friday into Friday night.

Limited moisture with the cold front and some elevated
instability in the low levels could present a possible shower or
thunderstorm with otherwise mainly dry conditions continuing
Thursday into Thursday night. POPs are only slight chance.

Ahead of the cold front Thursday, a warmer day is expected with
the trends higher at 850mb compared to the previous day. More
low level SW flow will help establish more warm air advection.
Forecast high temperatures once again used a blend of NBM and
MAV and MET, ranging from the lower 80s to around 90 for much of
the local area. Forecast dewpoints in the lower 60s for areas
along the coast and upper 50s farther inland. Resulting max
apparent temperature or max heat indices are forecast to reach
lower 90s (just nearly a degree or so higher than the actual
temperature) in parts of Northeast NJ. Northeast NJ expected to
be the warmest spot in the forecast region.

Followed NBM pretty closely for the forecast Thursday night
through Friday night. A residual shower or thunderstorm possible
Thursday night during the first half of the night. Dry
conditions then return thereafter through early Friday with the
cold front exiting south of the region. MAV/MET/NBM followed for
lows Thursday night, ranging from the upper 50s to upper 60s.

Weather becomes more unsettled Friday afternoon through Friday 
night as the cold front stalls out south of the region. 
Probability of showers increases towards the end of the short 
term forecast period, mainly for Friday night.

With clouds increasing Friday into Friday night and surface flow
becoming more easterly, a cooler maritime airmass infiltrates
the region. Forecast highs more in the 70s on Friday with some
lower 80s values within NYC and Northeast NJ. Forecast lows
Friday night cooler trend, ranging from the upper 50s to mid
60s.

&&

.LONG TERM /SATURDAY THROUGH TUESDAY/...
A cold front is forecast to become nearly stationary to the south of 
the area, through the Mid Atlantic region and the Delmarva, from 
Saturday into early next week. The front, along with waves of low 
pressure that move along it, may set off some showers. Some 
thunderstorms are possible Saturday as the front sinks south of the 
region. The front will be the focus for lift to aid in thunderstorm 
development. Thereafter, with a slightly more stable air mass in 
place on the other side of the frontal boundary, so just showers are 
expected. While Saturday looks to be the best chance for 
precipitation and there is a slight chance to chance POPs in the 
forecast from Sunday through Tuesday, a washout or all day rain event 
is not expected during this time frame.

Aloft, zonal flow on Saturday transitions to a low amplitude trough 
on Sunday that moves through New England. An approaching upper level 
ridge from the west flattens to become more zonal for the beginning 
of next week.

Placement of the frontal boundary will affect temperatures, mainly 
Saturday through the end of the forecast and is noted with the 
uncertainty in highs and lows seen in the spread of possibilities 
with the NBM guidance. As a result of the uncertainty, and no 
targets of opportunity, have stayed close to the NBM deterministic 
guidance.

&&

.AVIATION /15Z WEDNESDAY THROUGH SUNDAY/...
Weak high pressure builds into the terminals through tonight.

VFR through the TAF period. 

W-SW flow will start increasing the rest of the morning. SSW sea
breezes are likely by afternoon at coastal terminals. Wind
speeds 10-13 kt with gusts 17-20 kt possible. Any gusts diminish
early this evening with SW winds under 10 kt overnight. 

    NY Metro (KEWR/KLGA/KJFK/KTEB) TAF Uncertainty... 
Timing of sea breeze at JFK may be off by 1-2 hours and the wind
direction could vary more to the S at times. The sea breeze
could make it to LGA, but more likely winds stay SW. 

Afternoon gusts may be occasional. 

.OUTLOOK FOR 12Z THURSDAY THROUGH SUNDAY... 

Thursday: VFR. Slight chance of an evening shower or
thunderstorm. 

Friday: VFR. MVFR possible with scattered showers and thunderstorms 
during the afternoon and into the evening.

Saturday - Sunday: MVFR cigs or lower likely with chance of showers.

Detailed information, including hourly TAF wind component forecasts, 
can be found at: https:/www.weather.gov/zny/n90

&&

.MARINE...
Seas have fallen below small craft criteria for the eastern 
half of the ocean, but seas will be somewhat marginal at times 
through a portion of the afternoon with a lingering S to SSE 
swell of around 7 seconds. Thus, mainly below SCA conditions 
expected through the short term forecast through Friday night 
with the pressure gradient remaining relatively weak.

With a weak pressure gradient force expected across the forecast 
waters, as a frontal boundary remains in the vicinity of the ocean 
waters, winds and seas are expected to remain below SCA levels 
from Saturday through Monday.

&&

.HYDROLOGY...
No hydrologic impacts are expected through next Tuesday.

&&

.TIDES/COASTAL FLOODING...
A moderate risk for rip current development remains through 
this evening at ocean beaches.

The moderate risk for rip current development continues Thursday
at ocean beaches. 

The main driving influence will be southwest flow near 5 to 10
kts as well as lingering onshore swell of around 4 ft on average 
and period of 7-8 seconds.

&&

.OKX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CT...None.
NY...None.
NJ...None.
MARINE...None.

&&

$$

SYNOPSIS...JM/JP
NEAR TERM...JE/JM
SHORT TERM...JM
LONG TERM...JP
AVIATION...JP/DS
MARINE...JM/JP
HYDROLOGY...JM/JP
TIDES/COASTAL FLOODING...
