556 
FXUS61 KOKX 090533
AFDOKX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service New York NY
1233 AM EST Sun Feb 9 2025

.SYNOPSIS...
Low pressure system approaches from the west for tonight with a 
secondary low developing late tonight south of Long Island. The 
second low eventually tracks northeast away from the region Sunday 
into Sunday night towards the Canadian Maritimes. Meanwhile, high 
pressure will return Sunday into Sunday night across the area. This 
high pressure area will continue to build in through Monday
night. A series of lows will impact the area Tuesday through 
Thursday. High pressure returns to end the week and start the 
weekend.

&&

.NEAR TERM /UNTIL 6 AM THIS MORNING/...
Back edge of the heaviest precipitation working across eastern 
LI and SE CT where there could be some lingering heavy snow. 
Elsewhere, with dry air moving in aloft expect a light wintry 
mix and possibly just drizzle along the south shore of LI with 
temperatures just above freezing. This will persist through the
early morning hours. 

Winter storm warnings and winter weather advisory remain in
effect. Warnings will likely be coming down soon. 

This freezing drizzle will extend icy surface conditions for 
any untreated surfaces into Sunday morning. Possible lingering 
snow across the interior especially Southern CT for Sunday 
morning as well. This will be dependent on how well the low 
offshore matures and develops precipitation back to the 
northwest with deformation.

Temperatures expected to remain nearly steady overnight, mid 
20s to near 30 across interior and lower 30s across the coast.

&&

.SHORT TERM /6 AM THIS MORNING THROUGH MONDAY NIGHT/...
Wintry precipitation lingering this morning across the region in
the morning. Freezing drizzle chances are forecast. Southern CT
will have this wintry precipitation last the longest. Winter
weather advisory ends at 11AM. By 11AM, all precipitation is
expected to be over. Dry conditions are forecast thereafter
through Monday night with high pressure gaining control.
 
Temperatures are forecast to be around seasonable levels Sunday 
and Sunday night and then trend lower than normal for Monday and 
Monday night.

Nearly zonal upper level jet remains across the region with 
intensifying jet streak moving in Monday night.

Mid level shortwave moves northeast of the region. Mid level zonal 
flow remains through Monday night. 

At the surface, the low moves east of the 40N/70W benchmark Sunday. 
The low accelerates and deepens to southeast of the Canadian 
Maritimes by Sunday night. Meanwhile, an area of high pressure 
builds into the region from the west Sunday afternoon. 

The high pressure area will continue building into the region Sunday 
night through Monday night. The center of the high pressure area 
moves into the region Monday night.

&&

.LONG TERM /TUESDAY THROUGH SATURDAY/...
Zonal flow aloft for Tuesday and Tuesday night will help keep a weak 
area of low pressure to our south as it develops near the Mid-
Atlantic coast and heads east into the western Atlantic. The right-
entrance region of a strong upper jet streak will be over us and 
allow for expansion of the low's precip shield into the forecast 
area. Light snow likely Tuesday night for approx the southern two-
thirds of the forecast area with a 50% chance of snow for the 
northernmost zones. Snow accumulations would be up to an inch. 

Surface high pressure builds to our northeast during Wednesday with 
upper confluence. Thinking is that surface ridging over here will be 
strong enough to hold off any precipitation through the daytime 
hours and this is supported by model qpf field trends, but decided 
to leave in a slight chance of snow for some areas. Precip is then 
expected Wednesday night and Thursday with a familiar pattern of 
primary low pressure passing to our NW while a weaker secondary low 
shifts through the forecast area. This would send an elevated warm 
nose through, changing snow to a wintry mix Wednesday night before 
an eventual changeover to rain on Thursday as enough warm air pushes 
in. Right now it appears that snow/sleet accumulations would be on 
the light side before the changeover to rain. Can't rule out a 
little freezing rain well NW of the city either. 

Colder air filters back in from the NW Thursday night as high 
pressure builds back in behind the departing storm with lingering 
rain showers at the coast and snow showers or mixed rain/snow 
showers inland. Dry weather then expected for Friday and Friday 
night with high pressure in control. Another storm may then bring a 
wintry mix to the area by the end of Saturday.

&&

.AVIATION /05Z SUNDAY THROUGH THURSDAY/..
Low pressure deepening south of Long Island overnight will 
track to the northeast and away from the area Sunday.

Back edge of heaviest precipitation working across the eastern
terminals where there could be some lingering heavy snow at 
KGON. Elsewhere, with dry air moving in aloft expect a light 
wintry mix and possibly just drizzle at KJFK with temperatures 
just above freezing. Mainly IFR through the morning hours with
improvement to VFR expected by late morning and/or early
afternoon. However, ceilings just to the west of the NYC 
terminals are in the MVFR category, so will have to watch if 
this works into the area faster than currently forecast. 

E/NE winds overnight at less than 10 kt as deepening low pressure
passes to the south and east. Winds may be stronger at KBDR and
KGON during the early morning hours at 10-12kt with a few gusts
15-20kt. Winds then become NW after 12Z behind the departing 
low, with speeds increasing 10-15G20-25kt. Winds diminish Sunday
evening as high pressure builds in from the west. 

Airport Snow/Sleet Accumulations:

JFK/LGA/EWR/TEB/ISP: 3-5.
HPN/SWF/BDR/GON: 3-6.

 ...NY Metro (KEWR/KLGA/KJFK/KTEB) TAF Uncertainty... 

Amendments likely  overnight with changing flight categories 
and precipitation phase changes.

.OUTLOOK FOR 06Z MONDAY THROUGH THURSDAY... 

Late Sunday Night-Monday: VFR.

Tuesday: Chance of snow in the afternoon/night, mainly at the 
coastal terminals. IFR/LIFR conditions possible.

Wednesday: Slight chance of light snow/MVFR or lower conditions
at the coastal terminals early.

Thursday: MVFR/IFR in a wintry mix to rain.

Detailed information, including hourly TAF wind component forecasts, 
can be found at: https:/www.weather.gov/zny/n90

&&

.MARINE...
Mainly sub-SCA conditions expected through tonight, although
there is forecast to be some occasional 25 kt gusts with low
pressure strengthening offshore overnight into early Sunday
morning. 

Otherwise, synoptically, a more steep pressure gradient set to 
develop behind low pressure Sunday into Sunday night. More
widespread SCA gusts are expected to develop on the ocean waters
Sunday and extend into Sunday night, especially for more eastern
ocean waters. Ocean seas will build to 5 to 6 ft Sunday also,
also lingering into Sunday night, farther into Sunday night east
of Fire Island Inlet. Some non-ocean waters are forecast to
have gusts increase to near SCA levels, but only occasionally to 
25 kt.

With high pressure moving closer to the local waters, eventually
sub-SCA conditions expected to return to the ocean waters by
early Monday morning. Sub-SCA conditions then expected on all
waters through Monday night. 

Winds and seas will remain below advisory criteria across all the 
forecast waters with a weak pressure gradient Tuesday into 
Wednesday. An onshore flow then increases Wednesday night into 
Thursday morning with the approach of low pressure approaching from 
the south and west. Advisory-level gusts anticipated on all waters 
during this period with even a chance of a gust or two approaching 
gale force for a brief period on the ocean waters. Winds then shift 
offshore Thursday afternoon after a brief lull before increasing 
once again Thursday night with SCA conditions probable on all 
waters.

&&

.HYDROLOGY...
There are no hydrologic concerns through the forecast period.

&&

.OKX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CT...Winter Storm Warning until 11 AM EST this morning for 
     CTZ005>012.
NY...Winter Storm Warning until 11 AM EST this morning for 
     NYZ067>070.
     Winter Weather Advisory until 11 AM EST this morning for 
     NYZ071>075-078>081-176>179.
NJ...Winter Storm Warning until 11 AM EST this morning for NJZ002-
     103.
     Winter Weather Advisory until 11 AM EST this morning for 
     NJZ004-006-104>108.
MARINE...Small Craft Advisory from 7 AM this morning to 3 AM EST Monday 
     for ANZ350-353.
     Small Craft Advisory from 7 AM this morning to 9 PM EST this 
     evening for ANZ355.

&&

$$

SYNOPSIS...JC/JM
NEAR TERM...JM/JP
SHORT TERM...JM
LONG TERM...JC
AVIATION...DW
MARINE...JC/JM
HYDROLOGY...JC/JM
