727 
FXUS61 KOKX 101832
AFDOKX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service New York NY
232 PM EDT Sat May 10 2025

.SYNOPSIS...
High pressure builds in today and remains in control through 
Sunday. Then a weak cold front passes on Sunday with high 
pressure gradually moving offshore Sunday night through Monday 
night, still remaining in control through much of Tuesday. 
Unsettled weather returns the rest of next week as a slow, broad
low pressure system approaches from the south.

&&

.NEAR TERM /UNTIL 6 PM THIS EVENING/...
Main adjustments made with this update were for winds and 
temperatures as NBM is typically too low with both elements in a 
setup like this. Surface low pressure to our NE deepens, increasing 
the pressure gradient over here for a period today. At the same 
time, cyclonic flow aloft becomes more zonal as an upper low to our 
east continues to shift farther away. Clouds will continue to be 
more prevalent over CT - closer to the cyclonic flow, however 
some cu development over western zones anticipated with the 
help of some wet grounds from recent rainfall. This complicates 
the high temp forecast, but given a strong enough downslope flow
and compressional heating along with progged 850mb temps around
6C, high temps probably end up a little higher than 
deterministic NBM across much of the area away from CT. W to NW 
gusts 25-35 mph through early afternoon diminish closer to 20-25
mph by late.

&&

.SHORT TERM /6 PM THIS EVENING THROUGH MONDAY NIGHT/...
Heights will continually rise tonight through Monday as a ridge 
gradually approaches from the west. At the same time, a mid-level 
low will be situated over the Gulf States, leaving us on the east 
side of a Rex block pattern. This should leave us in a dry and sunny 
pattern through Monday. High pressure remains at the surface through 
this timeframe, as well, with winds remaining light under a weak 
pressure gradient. 

An upper-level trough passes far to our north/northeast in Canada on 
Sunday, which may help bring a weak cold front to the area, but this 
won't do much for us given dry air in place. 

Monday night, the rex block looks to break down with the low to our 
southwest finally breaking through the ridge to its north and 
approaching our area Monday night. This may lead to increasing cloud 
cover towards daybreak Tuesday. Otherwise, we should remain dry 
through Monday night. 

High temperatures remain primarily at or above average through the 
period with highs in the upper-60s to mid-70s. Lows will depart a 
little more from average through. Saturday night will see lows in 
the mid-50s to mid-40s, which is about average. But due to the weak 
cold front, lows may drop into the low-40s in the interior on Sunday 
night. Then as a low approaches to our southwest, lows Monday night 
will only drop to the mid-50s to low-60s.

&&

.LONG TERM /TUESDAY THROUGH FRIDAY/...
High pressure is positioned to the east of the area on Tuesday as a 
large upper level cut-off low over the Southern US begins to 
approach the area from the south. Mid-level ridging should remain in 
place during much of the day on Tuesday which should allow for the 
area to remain mainly dry, though some showers may begin to approach 
the area from the southwest as the impacts of the cutoff low begin 
to be felt.

By Wednesday and through much of the remainder of the week, a weak 
broad surface low pressure under the mid-level low will impact the 
area with scattered showers under a general S/SE flow. The low will 
slowly meander over the East Coast before eventually pushing 
offshore sometime late in the week and into the weekend. There 
doesn't look to be much instability so thunderstorms remain unlikely 
at this time. While the second half of the week is not expected to 
be a washout, overcast skies will persist with scattered showers 
possible through the weekend. A more organized frontal system may 
approach from the west into the weekend which may bring another 
round of showers.

Temperatures should remain fairly seasonable with highs each day in 
the upper 60s to middle 70s and lows each night in the middle 50s to 
lower 60s.

&&

.AVIATION /18Z SATURDAY THROUGH THURSDAY/...
VFR as high pressure gradually builds from the NW. NW flow still
gusting over 25 kt should diminish after 22Z, with speeds 10 kt
or less after dark. Speeds then pick up again by 14Z to around 
or just over 10 kt, with gusts up to 20 kt E of the NYC metros, 
and an occasional gust 15-18 kt from the metros north/west. 

 ...NY Metro (KEWR/KLGA/KJFK/KTEB) TAF Uncertainty...

No unscheduled AMD expected. 

.OUTLOOK FOR 18Z SUNDAY THROUGH WEDNESDAY...

Sunday afternoon: VFR. NW winds G15-20kt mainly E of the NYC
metros. 

Sunday night through Monday night: VFR.

Tuesday: MVFR cigs possible especially from the NYC metros 
west. 

Tuesday night: Low stratus/fog with IFR cond possible especially
near the coast at KJFK/KISP/KHPN/KBDR/KGON, otherwise MVFR cond
expected. Chance of showers.

Wednesday and Thursday: MVFR cond expected, IFR or lower cond
possible at times especially late night and early morning. 
Chance of showers. 

Detailed information, including hourly TAF wind component
forecasts, can be found at: https:/www.weather.gov/zny/n90

&&

.MARINE...
A SCA is up on ocean waters through late this afternoon for 5 ft
waves and gusty NW winds. A SCA is up through late this
afternoon on non-ocean waters for gusty NW winds. Winds and seas
diminish into tonight. Sub-SCA conditions are then expected
through Monday night. 

Sub-SCA conditions are expected on all waters through Tuesday night. 
Marginal SCA conditions become possible under an increasing S/SE 
flow as the pressure gradient tightens with the approach of a weak 
frontal system from the southwest. Gusts may approach 25kt on the 
ocean with wave heights near 5 feet possible.

&&

.HYDROLOGY...
There are no hydrologic concerns through through the end of 
next week.

&&

.OKX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CT...None.
NY...None.
NJ...None.
MARINE...Small Craft Advisory until 6 PM EDT this evening for ANZ331-
     332-335-338-340-345-350-353-355.

&&

$$

SYNOPSIS...BR/MW
NEAR TERM...JC/BR
SHORT TERM...BR
LONG TERM...MW
AVIATION...BG/MW
MARINE...BR/MW
HYDROLOGY...BR/MW
