191 
FXUS61 KOKX 251424
AFDOKX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service New York NY
924 AM EST Tue Feb 25 2025

.SYNOPSIS...
A cold front approaches from the west today, moving across this 
evening. High pressure briefly returns for Wednesday into early 
Wednesday evening before moving offshore. A stronger frontal system 
then approaches with its warm front moving across Wednesday night 
and then its cold front moving across Thursday night. A secondary 
cold front moves through early Friday followed by brief high 
pressure into Friday night. An Alberta Clipper low passes just to 
our north Saturday, followed by high pressure Sunday into
Tuesday.

&&

.NEAR TERM /THROUGH TONIGHT/...
Warm front north of the region with associated wave of low 
pressure approaching from the north and west today. It will have
an associated cold front that will eventually move across early
this evening. This will allow for some rain showers to fall 
across parts of the region. The synoptic forcing with the jet 
aloft places the local area farther away from the right rear 
quad but in close enough proximity to continue slight chance to
chance PoPs late this afternoon into early this evening. Have
just lowered slightly based on latest obs and CAMs.

While large scale models do not depict precipitation occurring 
across the coastal areas and just mainly across the interior,
some of the smaller scale mesoscale models do depict more 
shower activity closer to the coast. Not much rain is expected 
across the region and duration of rain showers will be brief.

High temperatures were from the MAV guidance, relatively warmer side 
of guidance. Most of the area has a range from the upper 40s to 
lower 50s for highs with some locations in NE NJ and within NYC 
getting into the mid 50s. Some locations could be reaching their 
respective highest temperatures for the calendar year thus far.

After the cold front passage tonight, the cold front and wave of low 
pressure move offshore and merge with a stronger low offshore. Winds 
become more westerly in the region. Forecast lows generally range 
from the lower 30s to near 40.

&&

.SHORT TERM /WEDNESDAY THROUGH THURSDAY NIGHT/...
For Wednesday into early Wednesday evening, high pressure will 
briefly return to the region. Then this high pressure area will move 
well out to sea. Next wave of low pressure from the Ohio Valley will 
approach with its associated warm front moving into and eventually 
north of the region Wednesday night into early Thursday. 

Some cold air advection on more westerly flow will make for a 
relatively cooler day Wednesday compared to the previous day. 
However, the highs forecast will still be near 50, which is still 
above normal for this time of year.

Region gets into warm sector Thursday with more southwest low level 
warm air advection. A rebound of temperatures for NYC and NE NJ as 
well as Lower Hudson Valley into SW CT is forecast. Those locations 
have forecast highs several degrees warmer than the previous day. 
Used the NBM for high temperatures. They do appear to have trended 
warmer compared to around 24 hours ago with the same blend. It is 
possible with subsequent forecasts that the high temperatures 
Thursday may trend higher.

The warm sector will be part of a stronger low pressure system 
approaching the area Thursday. The upper level jet with its left 
front quadrant will be closer, presenting enhanced lift. Higher 
chances of rain showers are forecast for the region with more rain 
possible as well.

Before all precipitation comes to a close Thursday night, back side 
of low with cold air advection may allow for some mixing with snow 
for the interior. At this time, any snow accumulations are expected 
to be light and generally under an inch.

&&

.LONG TERM /FRIDAY THROUGH MONDAY/...
A secondary cold front moves in with a sharply amplified trough aloft
early on Friday as a low exits over the Canadian Maritimes. With a 
lack of moisture, no precip is expected with this front, though 
clouds may hang around. Winds start Friday morning from the west, 
becoming NW with the frontal passage. After the frontal passage late 
Friday morning into Friday afternoon, NW winds are expected to 
increase with the aid of an increased pressure gradient. Peak winds 
Friday afternoon and early Friday evening will 10-15 mph with gusts 
up to 30 mph.

High pressure briefly sets Friday night. This lessens the pressure 
gradient allowing winds to lessen and even go light and variable 
late Friday night. Temperatures Friday night dip into the low-20s to 
mid-30s, with the warmest temperatures in the NYC metro, while 
everyone else likely drops below 30. 

An Alberta Clipper Low is expected to be somewhere over the Great 
Lakes Friday night, passing to our north midday to late Saturday and
bringing another cold front. Moisture will be low with this low, so 
most precip would likely only occur closer to the low's center. 
Guidance still varies on how close the low comes to us, but overall, 
expected around 0.,10" of QPF or less, with most of that occurring in 
the interior closer to the low. Coastal areas to the south will 
likely see less, if anything at all, depending on how north the low 
tracks. Precip, where it occurs, looks to be predominately rain, 
with a rain-snow mix in the interior, where the cooler air should 
be. 

Following Saturday's low, models are in good agreement that Sunday 
through Tuesday will be under high pressure. A large upper-level 
trough accompanies this high pressure Sunday into Monday followed by 
an upper-level ridge on Tuesday. Below average temperatures will 
take hold Sunday into Monday, but warm significantly on Tuesday in 
response to the higher heights that come with the ridge.

&&

.AVIATION /15Z TUESDAY THROUGH SATURDAY/...
A cold front moves through this evening followed by high 
pressure into tomorrow. 

VFR. A shower is possible with the cold frontal passage late 
afternoon and early evening, and maintained the PROB30, however
the best chances remain to the north, at KSWF, where brief MVFR
is possible with any shower.

Light S-SSW winds continue into the afternoon remaining 10 kt 
or less, except at KJFK where they may reach 11 kt. Winds shift 
to the NW this evening into tonight behind the front. They 
remain that way into the day tomorrow 5-10 kt. 

     NY Metro (KEWR/KLGA/KJFK/KTEB) TAF Uncertainty...

Timing of wind shift to the WNW-NW this evening may be off by 1-2 
hours. 

.OUTLOOK FOR 12Z WEDNESDAY THROUGH SATURDAY...

Wednesday: VFR.

Thursday: Showers and MVFR or lower possible. S-SW winds G15-20 kt 
in the afternoon. 

Friday: VFR. NW winds G20-25 kt.

Saturday: Mainly VFR. S winds G15-20 kt. 

Detailed information, including hourly TAF wind component forecasts, 
can be found at: https:/www.weather.gov/zny/n90

&&

.MARINE...
Sub-SCA conditions generally expected on average today through 
Wednesday night. May have some brief 25 kt gusts for parts of the 
ocean today into this evening but just occasional frequency. 

Greater chance of widespread SCA conditions with frontal system 
late Wednesday night, Thursday into Thursday night, especially
on the ocean.

SCA conditions are expected on all waters Friday with NW gusts 
peaking around 25 kts. SCA conditions for waves will be met on 
the ocean Friday with waves 5-7 feet. Friday night onwards, SCA 
criteria is not expected to be met, except for on ocean waters 
where 5-7 foot may linger just a little longer into early Friday
night, before dropping below 5 feet.

&&

.HYDROLOGY...
System today into tonight, under a quarter of an inch of rain
expected. System Thursday into Thursday night, under a half of
an inch of rain expected.

No hydrologic impacts are expected through the start of next 
week.

&&

.OKX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CT...None.
NY...None.
NJ...None.
MARINE...None.

&&

$$

SYNOPSIS...JM/BR
NEAR TERM...JM/JT
SHORT TERM...JM
LONG TERM...BR
AVIATION...BR/MET
MARINE...JM/BR
HYDROLOGY...JM/BR
