503 
FXUS61 KOKX 161453
AFDOKX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service New York NY
1053 AM EDT Mon Jun 16 2025

.SYNOPSIS...
High pressure gradually weakens and shifts farther east through 
Tuesday as a stalled frontal boundary remains well to our south. The 
boundary eventually lifts north as a warm front, moving through the 
area sometime Wednesday. A cold front moves through the region 
Thursday night. High pressure will then be in control Friday 
through the upcoming weekend.

&&

.NEAR TERM /THROUGH TONIGHT/...
Not much change with the surface features today. High pressure 
continues to nose in from the northeast and may just shift/weaken 
slightly. A stalled frontal boundary remains well offshore. Aloft, 
heights look to rise slightly as shortwave ridging builds in.

Continues to be a tough precip forecast as Sunday seemed to 
overperform a bit. There is plenty of moisture around in the low 
levels, specifically for western LI, NYC and northeast NJ which is 
farther away from the high pressure influence. The question just 
remains if there is enough lift around again today. Weak convergence 
in the low levels may be enough for light rain so have kept slight 
chances in the forecast.

Plenty of clouds around again today, with some breaks of sun 
possible for eastern CT once again. Given very little change in 
flow, cloud cover and airmass today, blended in Sunday's observed 
highs with NBM and 10th percentile NBM highs. This gave just a few 
degrees warmer than Sunday. Stuck with straight NBM for lows tonight 
with radiational cooling not expected.

&&

.SHORT TERM /TUESDAY THROUGH WEDNESDAY NIGHT/...
High pressure weakens further on Tuesday and the flow becomes more 
southeasterly. Additionally, some shortwave energy approaches aloft. 
With plenty of moisture still around this will allow for shower 
activity, mainly north and west of NYC. Given clouds and potential 
showers went with the cooler side of NBM guidance for highs.

Some uncertainty as we head into Wednesday morning with an 
approaching warm front and potential wave of low pressure. Pwats
surge Wednesday morning, with new 00z guidance a tad lower but 
still well above average for this time of year, about 2 inches. 
Guidance has also come in with a less potent shortwave and less
QPF than runs 24 hours ago. This is good news for any sort of 
heavy rainfall threat, but heavier downpours with any showers 
can not be ruled out. It looks like there is then potential for 
another shortwave to approach later in the afternoon/evening. 
This could trigger more showers and thunderstorms, especially 
given the destabilization that is expected to take place during 
the day. It is worth noting that the CSU machine learning severe
outlook product does have western portions of our area outlined
in a 5% risk for damaging winds.

With the warm front pushing through, a deep W/SW flow and some 
clearing, temperatures will likely be back up in the 80s across the 
area. Although we may be clear Wednesday night, the moist 
airmass will likely keep temperatures from dropping below the 
upper 60s.

&&

.LONG TERM /THURSDAY THROUGH SUNDAY/...
Timing of a cold frontal passage through the region remains 
consistent from previous forecasts, with the passage expected 
Thursday night. An amplifying shortwave moves out of the upper 
Midwest Thursday and tracks across the region Thursday night into 
Friday morning. And a cold front moves through the region Thursday 
night. With a warm and humid airmass in place for Thursday, and a 
vigorous vort max passing mainly to the north, showers and 
thunderstorms will become likely across the the lower Hudson Valley 
and into northeastern New Jersey Thursday afternoon. Surface CAPE 
increases to 1500 to around 2000 J/kg by late Thursday afternoon 
with shear 25 to 30kt. And atmospheric profiles show inverted V with 
a low level jet. Strong to locally severe thunderstorms will be 
possible late day into the early evening across these areas with 
damaging winds the main threat, and the Storm Prediction Center 
continues to highlight a 15% outlook for severe weather into Western 
Orange county, and into portions of western northeast New Jersey. 
Brief periods of heavy rainfall will also be possible with the 
storms, however, the threat of flooding is expected to be minimal 
with the quick movement of the storms and no training of cells 
expected. 

Otherwise, the remainder of the extended period will be generally 
quiet, except for a slight chance of thunderstorms inland Sunday 
afternoon as a surface trough develops and becomes the focus for 
lift. Temperatures will be above average Thursday into the upcoming 
weekend.

&&

.AVIATION /15Z MONDAY THROUGH FRIDAY/...
A weak ridge of high pressure remains across the terminals and a 
stationary front will remain off to the south with waves of low 
pressure along it. The front begins to move north as a warm front 
during Tuesday.

There remains a few pockets of low end VFR for a few northeastern 
terminals into a portion of this afternoon, otherwise widespread 
MVFR, with pockets of IFR prevail. There will be occasional pockets 
light rain or drizzle throughout the day and into this evening for 
some terminals, mainly at the NYC metro terminals and across Long 
Island. Low confidence forecast continues through today and tonight 
with regard to the timing of specific flight categories, especially 
for this afternoon and early this evening. Confidence increases for 
widespread IFR, and LIFR for the city and coastal terminals 
overnight. Very little to no improvement is anticipated during 
Tuesday morning.

Winds will generally be E to NE 7-13kt this afternoon, with a few 
gusts possible across eastern most coastal terminals. The winds 
overall will be lighter tonight, generally closer to 5 kt or 
slightly less late.


    NY Metro (KEWR/KLGA/KJFK/KTEB) TAF Uncertainty...

Low confidence with exact flight categories and specific timing 
through this evening.

Amendments likely for flight category changes through tonight.

Periods of light rain or drizzle through this afternoon, with no 
specific timing.


.OUTLOOK FOR 12Z TUESDAY THROUGH FRIDAY... 

Tuesday: IFR, with some pockets of MVFR likely. A chance of showers, 
mainly at night.

Wednesday: Chance of IFR in the morning, otherwise VFR. A chance of 
showers and thunderstorms with MVFR. 

Thursday: VFR. Chance of afternoon/evening showers and thunderstorms 
with MVFR.

Friday: VFR.

Detailed information, including hourly TAF wind component forecasts, 
can be found at: https:/www.weather.gov/zny/n90

&&

.MARINE...
A weak pressure gradient will result in winds and waves remaining 
below Small Craft Advisory criteria through Wednesday night.

Ocean seas east of Moriches Inlet may briefly reach SCA levels 
Thursday evening as southwest winds ahead of a cold front increase. 
Otherwise winds and seas will remain below advisory levels across 
the forecast waters Thursday through Friday night.

&&

.HYDROLOGY...
At this time there are no hydrologic concerns through the
Wednesday night.

Locally heavy downpours will be possible in any thunderstorms 
Thursday afternoon into the evening across portions of the lower 
Hudson Valley and into northeastern New Jersey with a moisture laden 
atmosphere in place and warm cloud processes dominating. However, 
the risk of flooding will be mitigated by the speed of any cells and 
lack of overall cell training.

&&

.TIDES/COASTAL FLOODING...
Rip current risk remains at moderate for today and Tuesday. While 
winds will be mainly parallel to the coast, the resultant 4 ft 8s 
wave will be enough for a moderate risk. The winds become a bit more 
southeasterly on Tuesday and with the onshore component expecting 
moderate again.

&&

.OKX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CT...None.
NY...None.
NJ...None.
MARINE...None.

&&

$$

SYNOPSIS...MET/JT
NEAR TERM...JT
SHORT TERM...JT
LONG TERM...MET
AVIATION...JE
MARINE...MET/JT
HYDROLOGY...MET/JT
TIDES/COASTAL FLOODING...
