371 
FXUS61 KOKX 040224
AFDOKX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service New York NY
1024 PM EDT Sat May 3 2025

.SYNOPSIS...
A slow moving cold front stalls near western parts of the 
region tonight and remains stalled across the region through 
Sunday. The system then tracks through the region into midweek, 
before lifting north and east. An associated frontal boundary 
may linger nearby into late week.

&&

.NEAR TERM /UNTIL 6 AM SUNDAY MORNING/...
Forecast on track with just some minor adjustments to
temperatures and dew points across the region. 

Shower and more isolated thunderstorm chances will continue
through the first half of the overnight, 

Shower and more isolated thunderstorm chances will continue 
across mainly NW sections into the overnight for a while, 
before activity wanes late in the overnight and into Sunday 
morning. With convection waning during the overnight, the 
frontal boundary should retreat back to the north as a warm 
front overnight. Some patchy fog may be possible where earlier 
steadier / heavier rainfall occurred. 

Low temps will fall to the lower 60s in NYC and NE NJ, and into
the 50s elsewhere.

&&

.SHORT TERM /6 AM SUNDAY MORNING THROUGH SUNDAY NIGHT/...
On Sunday scattered showers expected mainly during the
afternoon/evening as an Atlantic moisture feed sets up between 
the low to the west and offshore high pressure, with the best 
chances for heavier rain late Sunday night into Monday. Instability
still appears rather limited, so thinking the threat of thunder
will be low.

Temperatures will not be as warm, with highs in the 60s to 
lower 70s, and lows Sunday night in the 50s.

&&

.LONG TERM /MONDAY THROUGH SATURDAY/...
An active and unsettled start to the long term with periods of 
showers and thunderstorms as an upper level low pressure system 
spins over the OH Valley and high pressure to the north and east 
steer Atlantic moisture onshore. 

Rain is not expected the entire timeframe, but chances for rain 
persist thru at least the first half of Wednesday.  Instability and 
forcing make for chances of thunderstorms as well within the Monday 
night through midweek timeframe. Relatively highest chances of 
thunderstorms are forecast Monday thru Tuesday evening. The upper 
level low eventually exits east of the region Wednesday into 
Wednesday night, with a surface boundary potentially lingering 
nearby. Another upper level trough moves into the region behind the 
low going into late week.

Overall QPF of a couple of inches, in general, appears likely, 
though the long duration of the event should help mitigate more 
significant flash flood concerns. See hydro section below for 
additional detail.

Temperatures average near to just above normal in the period.

&&

.AVIATION /03Z SUNDAY THROUGH THURSDAY/...
A stalled frontal boundary will reside in close proximity to 
the Lower Hudson Valley through Sunday. This will serve as a 
focus for showers and thunderstorms.

Expect mainly VFR conditions outside of any showers and/or 
thunderstorms through tonight. There is some uncertainty with 
the lowering of ceilings late tonight into Sunday morning. At
this time, have opted to be slower with lowering categories 
into Sunday, but ultimately the trend will be for lowering 
categories through the day Sunday. 

Outflow boundaries and sea breezes have resulted in winds anywhere 
from westerly, backing to northerly. Winds should be mostly S to SE 
by midnight at around 10kt or less. Winds may become more easterly 
toward daybreak. 

 ...NY Metro (KEWR/KLGA/KJFK/KTEB) TAF Uncertainty...

Chance of MVFR/IFR Sunday morning.

.OUTLOOK FOR 00Z MONDAY THROUGH THURSDAY...

Sunday night: IFR with a chance of showers.

Monday: Showers likely with MVFR or lower expected. A slight
chance of tstms. E winds G15-20kt. 

Tuesday: Showers with MVFR or lower expected. A chance of  
thunderstorms. SE winds G15-20kt day into early eve possible.

Wednesday: Chance of MVFR or lower with a slight chance of 
showers/thunderstorms.

Thursday: VFR.

Detailed information, including hourly TAF wind component
forecasts, can be found at: https:/www.weather.gov/zny/n90

&&

.MARINE...
SCA conditions continue for the ocean until 6 AM, with seas 
mainly 4 to 6 ft on a long fetch S flow gusting to 25 kt at 
times. The small craft on the South Shore Bays of LI has been
allowed to expire with more occasional gusts of 20 to 25 kt at
times for a portion of the overnight. Sub advisory conditions 
return for all waters Sunday and Sunday night. 

Ocean seas likely run near 5 ft Monday thru Tuesday, with SCA 
conditions elsewhere unlikely during this time.

&&

.HYDROLOGY...
A marginal flash flood risk exists for tonight for inland areas
NW of NYC, as rain / tstms will be capable of producing 1-1.5 
inches of rain in a short period of time. Most of the impacts 
should be at nuisance level, but cannot rule out an isolated 
flash flood event. 

Periods of rain are expected Monday into midweek. There could be 
training of showers and thunderstorms at times that result in minor 
flooding for excessive runoff in low lying, urban, and poor drainage 
areas. The overall risk for flash flooding is low.

&&

.OKX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CT...None.
NY...None.
NJ...None.
MARINE...Small Craft Advisory until 6 AM EDT Sunday for ANZ350-353-355.

&&

$$

SYNOPSIS...20/DR
NEAR TERM...BC/JE/20
SHORT TERM...20
LONG TERM...DR
AVIATION...JC
MARINE...20/DR
HYDROLOGY...20/DR
