128 
FXUS61 KOKX 091126
AFDOKX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service New York NY
726 AM EDT Sat Aug 9 2025

.SYNOPSIS...
High pressure will remain in control through the weekend. The 
high will then slowly weaken as a frontal system approaches mid 
to late next week.

&&

.NEAR TERM /THROUGH TONIGHT/...
Elongated E-W high pressure extending from Nova Scotia to the 
Middle Atlantic will remain in control through tonight. Heights 
aloft will slowly rise as ridging builds over the eastern US. 

Mostly clear conditions are expected through tonight. 
Temperatures should end up a few degrees warmer than those 
observed on Friday with highs in the lower 80s for most spots 
and middle 80s for the warmer locations in NE NJ and Lower 
Hudson Valley. Another cool night is in store with a continued 
dry air mass, mostly clear skies, and light winds. Temperatures 
look to fall into the upper 50s to low 60s for most and middle 
60s in the NYC metro.

&&

.SHORT TERM /SUNDAY THROUGH MONDAY NIGHT/...
A high amplitude ridge (+2 to +3SD) over the eastern third of
the country will be the main weather feature into early next 
week. Surface high pressure over the area on Sunday will shift 
offshore and become more of a Bermuda high pressure system 
Monday into Monday night. 

Temperatures will trend warmer both Sunday and Monday. The latest 
model consensus blend looks good with highs in the middle to upper 
80s for most and low 90s in NE NJ on Sunday. Monday is looking to 
feature more widespread low 90s away from the immediate coast with 
middle to upper 80s near the coast due to the onshore flow 
influence. The air mass will remain very dry with only a few clouds 
each day. Dew points will be low enough (mid/upper 50s to low 60s) 
to keep heat indices close to air actual air temperatures and 
prevent them from getting higher than lower 90s. Nighttime 
temperatures also gradually increase each night with patchy fog
possible.

&&

.LONG TERM /TUESDAY THROUGH FRIDAY/...
No significant changes made to the long term. 

The high amplitude ridge in place across the eastern third of the 
country will gradually break down through the period with the 
westerlies sending a cold front through late Thursday into Friday. 

Expect mainly dry conditions with increasing heat and humidity 
Tuesday and Wednesday. Often, the NBM can be too high with dew 
points and over the last couple of days it has adjusted dew points 
slightly downward Tuesday. This likely due to its bias correction, 
especially from recent performance. Regardless, there still remains 
a chance for heat indices to meet heat advisory criteria, 
specifically for the criteria of two consecutive day at 95 to 99. 
The hottest day currently looks to occur on Wednesday with potential 
of it continuing into Thursday. However, the areal coverage of 95-99 
heat indices has been decreasing for Thursday. Temperatures during 
this time will average 5-10 degrees above normal.

A late day shower or thunderstorm is possible mainly NW of NYC 
Wednesday-Friday afternoons/evenings. Highs will generally be in the 
upper 80s to lower 90s away from the Atlantic facing beaches with 
lows in the 60s and lower 70s.

&&

.AVIATION /12Z SATURDAY THROUGH WEDNESDAY/...
VFR through the TAF period with high pressure remaining in control. 

Light NE to E winds to start, becoming SE at 10 kt or less from
late morning into the afternoon. Light and variable winds for
tonight.

     NY Metro (KEWR/KLGA/KJFK/KTEB) TAF Uncertainty...

No unscheduled amendments expected.

.OUTLOOK FOR 12Z SUNDAY THROUGH WEDNESDAY... 

Today-Tuesday: VFR. 
Wednesday: Mainly VFR with a late day thunderstorm and sub-VFR
possible.

Detailed information, including hourly TAF wind component forecasts, 
can be found at: https:/www.weather.gov/zny/n90

&&

.MARINE...
High pressure in control will lead to conditions below SCA
levels through the middle of next week. A weak area of low
pressure well offshore may continue to bring an E swell into
early next week, but seas will remain below 5 ft.

&&

.HYDROLOGY...
There are no hydrologic concerns through next week.

&&

.TIDES/COASTAL FLOODING...
Easterly swells continue this weekend, but may start to subside
a bit on Sunday. A moderate rip current risk continues today,
but falls to low on Sunday with the subsiding swell.

&&

.OKX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CT...None.
NY...None.
NJ...None.
MARINE...None.

&&

$$

AVIATION...JC
