538 
FXUS61 KOKX 280538
AFDOKX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service New York NY
1238 AM EST Fri Feb 28 2025

.SYNOPSIS...
Weak high pressure will build from the west through this
afternoon, then pass offshore by evening. A strong cold front 
will pass through Saturday afternoon, followed by building high 
pressure into Monday. Deepening low pressure over the mid 
section of the country will then lift out of the central Plains 
on Tuesday. 

&&

.NEAR TERM /UNTIL 6 AM THIS MORNING/...
Cold front along with a few showers has clear eastern Long
Island. Expect a dry westerly flow with some isolated gusts
20-25 mph mainly east of NYC. Skies have cleared from NYC 
north/west and will gradually so so elsewhere to the east. 

Low temps will remain above normal, in the lower 30s inland, and
the mid 30s to around 40 at the coast. 

&&

.SHORT TERM /6 AM THIS MORNING THROUGH 6 PM SATURDAY/...
High pres ridges across the area today ahead of an Alberta 
Clipper low dropping down from the Great Lakes. The low is 
modeled to track into nrn New England, so this puts the area in 
the warm sector and out of the region of best lift and dynamics.
As a result, only some low PoP in the fcst attm, with the 
highest chances inland to the north. 

Mainly light rain as the pcpn type, but there could be some wet
flakes at times across the far nrn tier. No accums expected.

Based on a well mixed wly flow today, did increase wind gusts 
abv the NBM to about 25 mph thru the day. 

Temps today and tonight are close to the NBM with some local
adjustments made. 

&&

.LONG TERM /SATURDAY NIGHT THROUGH THURSDAY/...
Key Points:

* Significant temperature decrease Saturday night with lows by
  Sunday morning in the teens to lower 20s.

* Well below normal Sunday and Monday with highs only in the
  30s.

* Temperatures trending warmer for midweek, returning to above 
  normal.

* Heavy rain possibility for the middle of next week.

Stayed close to the NBM guidance during this period as global
models are in decent agreement. However, made some minor 
adjustments in timing and speed based on trends in 12Z globals 
and ensembles.

An amplifying upper trough across eastern Canada south into the
Mid Atlantic states will send a strong polar cold front through
the area Saturday afternoon. Any showers will be brief and 
mainly across the interior. The core of cold air will stay well 
to the north across eastern Canada with 85h temps of -30C. 
However, there will be a period Saturday night into Sunday where
85h temps get as low as -15 to -20c. After highs in the lower 
to mid 50s Saturday, temperatures will quickly drop behind the 
front with lows by daybreak Sunday into the teens to lower 20s. 
Gusty NW winds up to 25 mph will follow Saturday night and then 
gradually subside heading into Sunday as high pressure builds in
from the west. Highs Sunday will only get into the upper 20s to
mid 30s, warmest across the coast. With no upstream blocking 
over the north Atlantic, the airmass will be fleeting with the 
upper trough quickly lifting offshore by Monday. 

Expect a significant warmup heading into midweek as a southern 
branch storm system emerges from the southern Plains Tuesday, 
heading up through the Great Lakes Wednesday and into eastern 
Canada by Thursday. Ahead of it will be a period of large scale
warm advection Tuesday night into Wednesday, followed by a cold
frontal passage on Thursday. The system looks to have a good
feed of moisture from both the Gulf and Atlantic. This combined
with deep-layered lift would be able to produce some heavy warm
conveyor belt rains. Keep in mind, this is almost a week out 
and way too early to be too specific with the details.

&&

.AVIATION /06Z FRIDAY THROUGH TUESDAY/...
VFR as weak high pressure builds from the west through this
afternoon, then passes offshore by evening. 

W-WNW winds prevail this morning. Gusts 20-25 kt return near 14Z 
for most terminals, then subside toward 20Z-21Z.

 ...NY Metro (KEWR/KLGA/KJFK/KTEB) TAF Uncertainty...

No unscheduled AMD expected.

.OUTLOOK FOR 06Z SATURDAY THROUGH TUESDAY...

Late tonight: VFR. S winds G15-20kt. 

Saturday: VFR. WNW winds G25-30kt in the afternoon. 

Sunday: VFR. NW winds G15-20kt. 

Monday and Tuesday: VFR. 

Detailed information, including hourly TAF wind component
forecasts, can be found at: https:/www.weather.gov/zny/n90

&&

.MARINE...
SCA remains up for the ocean waters through Saturday. There
could be an ocnl gust to around 25 kt right behind the cold 
front tonight. Otherwise, increasing W winds and seas should
remain aoa 5 ft on the ocean thru tonight. Winds mrgnl elsewhere
thru the period. 

SCA conditions continue into Saturday on the ocean waters,
mainly for seas to start. However, a cold frontal passage will
be followed by marginal NW gust to around 25 kt Saturday 
afternoon and night. Thereafter, high pressure builds in from 
the west Sunday into Monday with diminishing winds and seas.

&&

.HYDROLOGY...
There is a storm system that has potential to bring some heavy
rain for the middle of next week. However, it's too early to
be specific with rainfall amounts. 

&&

.OKX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CT...None.
NY...None.
NJ...None.
MARINE...Small Craft Advisory until 6 PM EST Saturday for ANZ350-353-
     355.

&&

$$

SYNOPSIS...JMC/DW
NEAR TERM...JMC/DW
SHORT TERM...JMC
LONG TERM...DW
AVIATION...JE/BG
MARINE...JMC/DW
HYDROLOGY...JMC/DW
