480 
FXUS61 KOKX 271443
AFDOKX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service New York NY
943 AM EST Mon Jan 27 2025

.SYNOPSIS...
Low pressure moves through southeast Canada into tonight,
dragging a cold front through on Tuesday. Another clipper low 
passes through Tuesday night into Wednesday. High pressure then
gradually builds in from the west through Thursday. Low pressure 
may impact the region Friday into the first half of the weekend 
before another front pushes it out to sea. Canadian high 
pressure builds in for Sunday.

&&

.NEAR TERM /UNTIL 6 PM THIS EVENING/...
Forecast on track this morning. High pressure weakens over the 
area this morning as a shortwave and associated weak surface 
trough move through the area. Not much expected from this 
feature in terms of sensible weather except for some mid and 
high level clouds. High pressure then continues to weaken as a 
strong 970mb surface low moves through southeast Canada.

While the low will pass well north of the area, winds gradually 
increase and back to the southwest in response to the 
tightening pressure gradient. Sustained winds at 15 to 20 mph 
with gusts around 25 mph expected this afternoon.

Plenty of subsidence through the column today will allow for sunny 
skies. Highs will be in the upper 30s to low 40s.

&&

.SHORT TERM /6 PM THIS EVENING THROUGH WEDNESDAY NIGHT/...
As mentioned, strong low pressure will pass well to our north, but 
it will drag a cold front through our area on Tuesday. Winds ahead 
of that front continue to strengthen tonight. A strong LLJ forms 
late this evening, with the axis roughly oriented from just south of 
Long Island, up through eastern Suffolk County and then into RI and 
Cape Cod. Latest guidance continues to show 40 to 45 knots at 950mb. 
The NAM still shows the strongest LLJ with 45 to 50 knots at 950mb, 
but this is an outlier. Over the relatively warmer waters there is 
high confidence tonight of 40+ knot gusts making it to the
surface with forecast soundings showing mixing up to 925mb+, 
but with an expected inversion over land, gusts likely stay 
below wind advisory criteria. Across eastern Suffolk County and 
southeastern CT, gusts up to 40 mph are expected, with isolated
45+ mph gusts possible. Elsewhere, gusts will range from 25 to 
35 mph. After sunrise Tuesday, while the strong LLJ will push 
east, deep mixing will allow for widespread 35 mph gusts. There 
is still some uncertainty with exactly when the cold front moves
through, but it will likely be sometime in the late morning or 
early afternoon on Tuesday. The best chances for any 
precipitation with this front will be across the interior, but 
slight chance PoPs extend down to the coast. This would fall as 
light rain or snow showers depending on location. Some of the 
activity could be more in the form of squalls, but the bulk of 
this activity is expected to stay north and west of the area. 
This potential will continue to be monitored as guidance does 
show very weak SBCAPE values with decent low level 
frontogenesis resulting in non-zero snow squall parameter values.
Regardless, any snow that does fall would likely not result in 
more than a dusting.

Weak high pressure briefly builds in for the start of Tuesday night, 
but will quickly be followed by a clipper low diving down from the 
northwest. This system will once again bring gusty winds to the area 
as well as rain and snow showers. The best chances for any 
accumulation will be across the interior, but will once again be 
light. Current forecast has up to half an inch of snowfall across 
eastern CT.

&&

.LONG TERM /THURSDAY THROUGH SUNDAY/...
A cold front that moved through Wednesday night will push farther 
south on Thursday. Though with timing differences in models, the 
front may still be within the forecast area Thursday morning. High 
pressure builds in behind the front while an upper level trough off 
the coast of New England pushes east. 

The front lifts back north as a warm front Thursday night as low 
pressure over southern Canada moves east across northern New England 
into Friday, and weakens as it does so. Meanwhile, a more potent low 
over the Mid-West moves toward the region Thursday night. This low 
may impact the region as early as Friday evening, but there is a 
great deal timing and placement differences, so stuck close to NBM 
in regards to POPs. 

Eventually, a cold front moves through from the northwest, pushing 
the low out approaching the area from the Mid-West out to sea Sunday 
morning, and high pressure builds in for the rest of Sunday. This 
could end up suppressing the low to the south of the forecast area, 
and we would be on the northern fringes of the low. 

Temperatures and precipitation types during this time frame is 
highly dependent on exactly where the fronts will be. For now, 
expect slightly below normal temperatures on Thursday, slightly 
above normal for Friday as the warm front lifts north of the area, 
then back down to near normal on Saturday and slightly cooler for 
Sunday.

&&

.AVIATION /15Z MONDAY THROUGH FRIDAY/...
Weak high pressure remains in place today, then a cold front 
approaches tonight and moves through on Tuesday.

VFR. W winds around 10 kt shift to the WSW and increase this 
morning with gusts developing 17Z to 18Z. Gusts may subside for 
a few hours during the evening hours, but otherwise continue 
through the night and strengthen Tuesday morning to around 30 
kt.

LLWS from 00Z to 09Z tonight at 2 kft from the SW at 40 to 45 
kt.

     NY Metro (KEWR/KLGA/KJFK/KTEB) TAF Uncertainty...

Occasional gusts this afternoon may approach 30 kt. Isolated
gust of 30 to 35 kt possible this afternoon. Gusts might be 
only occasional from approx 23Z-04Z with sustained winds 
lowering by a few kt during that period. LLWS at 2 kft from the
SW at 40 to 45 kt.

.OUTLOOK FOR 12Z TUESDAY THROUGH FRIDAY...

Tuesday: Mainly VFR. Slight chance of brief MVFR, possibly IFR,
in snow showers. WNW 15-25 kt, gusts around 30 kt, with chc 35 
kt along the coast. Winds subside PM. 

Wednesday: Chance of MVFR or lower in light snow, especially across 
the northern terminals. WSW gusts around 25 kt.

Thursday - Friday: VFR. NW gusts 20-25 kt Thursday.

Detailed information, including hourly TAF wind component forecasts, 
can be found at: https:/www.weather.gov/zny/n90

&&

.MARINE...
Winds increase today and peak tonight through Tuesday. The Gale 
Warning now includes all waters except the western LI Sound and NY 
Harbor and starts at 6 PM. Ahead of the gales, a Small Craft 
Advisory has been issued for all waters starting at 1 PM for 25 kt 
wind gusts.

For the gale warning, 35 to 40 kt gusts are expected, with a few 
isolated gusts up to 45 kt possible for the far eastern LI Sound and 
eastern ocean zone. Given the strong winds, seas on the ocean likely 
reach 7 to 10 feet, with waves on the Sound reaching 4 to 6 
feet.

Winds and waves briefly lower below SCA criteria Tuesday night 
before increasing again Wednesday into Wednesday night with the 
passing of a clipper low. There is potential for gales once again, 
mainly on the ocean waters. Confidence is low at this time and will 
leave out of the HWO.

SCA conditions on the ocean waters for Thursday as waves 4 to 8 ft 
diminish through the day, possibly dropping below 5 ft for most of 
the ocean waters by Thursday evening as high pressure builds in over 
the waters. Waves increase to above 5 ft late Thursday night from 
Fire Island to Montauk Point as low pressure approaches from the 
west and remain above 5 ft through the day Friday and possibly at 
least the first half of Friday night.

Winds will largely be below 25 kt across the non-ocean waters 
through the period, though occasional gusts to 25 kt are possible. 
Winds of 25 to 30 kt over the ocean early Thursday morning diminish 
by late morning or early afternoon, but increase to around 25 kt 
once again late Thursday night into Friday diminishing Friday
night.

&&

.HYDROLOGY...
There are no hydrologic concerns through the weekend.

&&

.OKX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CT...None.
NY...None.
NJ...None.
MARINE...Small Craft Advisory from 1 PM this afternoon to 6 PM EST this 
     evening for ANZ331-332-340-345-350-353-355.
     Gale Warning from 6 PM this evening to 1 PM EST Tuesday for 
     ANZ331-332-340-345-350-353-355.
     Small Craft Advisory from 1 PM this afternoon to 6 PM EST 
     Tuesday for ANZ335-338.

&&

$$

SYNOPSIS...JP/JT
NEAR TERM...DS/JT
SHORT TERM...JT
LONG TERM...JP
AVIATION...BC/JP
MARINE...JP/JT
HYDROLOGY...JP/JT
