360 
FXUS61 KOKX 272344
AFDOKX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service New York NY
744 PM EDT Tue May 27 2025

.SYNOPSIS...
High pressure will remain offshore on Wednesday. Meanwhile, low
pressure and its associated frontal system will approach from 
the west, moving over the area Wednesday night into Thursday. A 
series of low pressure systems move through the region Thursday 
night through Saturday night. Weak high pressure returns Sunday 
into early next week.

&&

.NEAR TERM /UNTIL 6 AM WEDNESDAY MORNING/...
No significant changes with the evening update.

High pressure remains east of the region tonight. Meanwhile, 
low pressure and an upper level trough approaches from the west.
It will remain cloudy overnight. Warm air advection ahead of 
the trough, along with some forcing may result in a sprinkle or 
light rain around daybreak, but most of the measurable rain 
should hold off until after sunrise. Lows tonight will fall into
the 50s.

&&

.SHORT TERM /6 AM WEDNESDAY MORNING THROUGH THURSDAY/...
The region will remain stuck between low pressure and upper 
level trough to the west and surface high pressure and ridging 
aloft to the east. Expect a cloudy day, with rain chances slowly
increasing, mainly across the western half of the CWA through 
the daytime. Portions of CT and Long Island may remain dry 
through much of the day, as the precipitation runs into drier 
air. Expect cooler temperatures with highs only in the 60s. 
There is a chance interior CT reaches the lower 70s if cloud 
cover is thinner across this area. 

Rain chances then increase Wednesday night into Thursday as the
low finally moves over the area. Expect POPs to increase and 
become likely. The forecast guidance does differ a bit on the 
amplitude of the shortwave and associated energy moving across 
the area. A flatter guidance generally brings in less precip 
overall as the forcing is weaker, while a slightly more 
amplified solutions have a bit more precip along. Even with 
these differences, QPF amounts remain low, generally remaining 
below a half inch, CWA wide. Temperatures Wednesday night will 
fall into the 50s and Thursday climb into the upper 60s and 
lower 70s.

&&

.LONG TERM /THURSDAY NIGHT THROUGH TUESDAY/...
A full amplitude trough, with an embedded closed low, from eastern 
Canada into the Gulf coast states Thursday night gradually builds 
to the east coast Friday and remains into late Sunday before moving 
offshore Sunday night into early next week.
With a series of vort maxes rotating through the upper low and 
trough, a series of lows will track along a nearly stationary 
frontal boundary from off the New England coast into the mid 
Atlantic. The last of the waves moves through Saturday bringing a 
cold front across the region. So a long period of unsettled weather 
is expected from Thursday night into Saturday night.
With rising heights aloft Sunday night into the beginning of next 
week, and surface high pressure building into the region, dry 
weather returns. Followed the NBM deterministic guidance, which has 
trended lower for daytime highs Friday and Saturday, with 
temperatures generally below normal. Night time lows will be near 
normal.

&&

.AVIATION /00Z WEDNESDAY THROUGH SUNDAY/...
High pressure situated to the south and east of the area will 
gradually give way to a frontal system approaching from the SW 
into Wednesday. 

VFR forecast through Wednesday morning, then MVFR conditions 
are expected to develop in rain late Wednesday
afternoon/evening, especially the NYC terminals. IFR conditions
will be possible after 00z. It may remain VFR across the 
eastern terminals.

S-SW less around 5kt overnight. Winds will the back to the SSE 
at 5 to 10 kt in the morning, becoming ESE in the afternoon. 
Winds are then expected to become more E Wednesday night.

 ...NY Metro (KEWR/KLGA/KJFK/KTEB) TAF Uncertainty...

Timing and lowering categories Wednesday afternoon may be later
than forecast. Wind shift could also be delayed. 

.OUTLOOK FOR 00Z THURSDAY THROUGH SUNDAY...

Wednesday night and Thursday: Rain likely. MVFR conditions 
expected, IFR possible late at night into the morning. E-SE 
winds G15-20kt at the NYC metro/coastal terminals at night.

Friday: Mainly VFR. Slight chance of showers. MVFR or lower cigs
possible toward evening at the coastal terminals. 

Friday night and Saturday: Chance of showers and possibly a 
tstm. MVFR cond likely, IFR possible. SW winds G15-20kt in 
the afternoon. 

Sunday...VFR.

Detailed information, including hourly TAF wind component forecasts, 
can be found at: https:/www.weather.gov/zny/n90

&&

.MARINE...
No changes to winds and seas with this update.

Winds and seas will remain below SCA levels through Wednesday 
with high pressure in control. Increasing SE flow Wednesday 
night into Thursday may lead to wind gusts close to 25 kt and 
seas building to near 5 ft on the ocean. The flow may weaken a 
bit on Thursday, but seas will remain elevated. 

Ocean seas remain at SCA levels Thursday night as southerly 
winds continue ahead of a cold front. With the passage of the 
cold front winds shifts to SW to W and ocean seas gradually 
diminish below 5 feet by Friday morning. Ocean seas briefly 
remain below SCA levels Friday, then with increasing southerly 
winds ahead of another front ocean seas likely build to advisory
levels late Friday night into Saturday. Ocean seas remain 
elevated Saturday night, and gradually subside below 5 feet west
to east during Sunday as winds shift to the west to southwest.

&&

.HYDROLOGY...
No hydrologic impacts expected through early next week.

&&

.TIDES/COASTAL FLOODING...
There is a low rip current risk at ocean beaches through Wednesday 
with 1-2 ft seas and winds generally 10 kt or less.
The rip current development risk increases to high for Thursday
due to a building southeast swell and southeast winds.

&&

.OKX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CT...None.
NY...None.
NJ...None.
MARINE...None.

&&

$$

SYNOPSIS...BC/MET
NEAR TERM...BC/MET
SHORT TERM...BC
LONG TERM...MET
AVIATION...BC
MARINE...BC/MET
HYDROLOGY...BC/MET
TIDES/COASTAL FLOODING...
