201 
FXUS61 KOKX 130617
AFDOKX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service New York NY
117 AM EST Thu Feb 13 2025

.SYNOPSIS...
Low pressure and its associated frontal system impact the area 
overnight into Thursday. High pressure then builds in Thursday 
night through Friday before shifting offshore early Saturday. 
Another storm system then impacts the area later Saturday into 
Sunday. High pressure slowly builds back in early next week. Low
pressure may impact the area for the middle of next week.

&&

.NEAR TERM /THROUGH TODAY/...
Winter Weather Advisory remains in effect for the interior
through 9am EST Thursday morning.

Any snow and mixed precip has changed to all rain for the metro
and coast. Far northern portions of NJ, the Lower Hudson Valley,
and So. CT have snow and mixed precip for the next couple of
hours, before warming completely takes hold.

High pressure over southeast Quebec continues to ridge down 
into New England for a good portion of the overnight with a weak
CAD signature. At the same time, low pressure developing over 
the southeast is now moving up into the Ohio Valley. The 
associated warm front is still currently down to the south, but
will approach from the Middle Atlantic later in the overnight 
and pre-dawn hours.

The snow/sleet combo may continues inland for awhile longer as a
warm nose from around 5-10kft, which effectively ends the snow 
and yields a transition to liquid. The depth of the cold below 
the warm nose is not deep enough to refreeze any of the melted 
snow to sleet. Therefore, interior locations may see a period of
freezing rain overnight which supports the ongoing Advisory. 
Even most of the interior should be plain rain by day break 
Thursday except for some of the usual colder locations well 
inland. Temperatures should rise for the rest of the morning as 
the warm front lifts to the north. It may take longest for it 
clear the interior, but expect temperatures there to reach the 
low 40s by afternoon. Rain continues Thursday morning, but 
should taper off quickly from west to east late morning into the
afternoon. The trailing cold front should quickly pass through 
late in the day. Temperatures peak in the 40s before starting to
fall by evening with the cold front passage.

Little to no snow/sleet accumulation expected across NYC
metro and the coast, with an inch or less inland. Generally a 
glaze of ice accretion is expected in the Advisory area. 

The potential for fog increases late in the overnight and into 
Thursday as the warmer air moves over the lingering snow pack.

&&

.SHORT TERM /TONIGHT THROUGH FRIDAY NIGHT/...
Dry and breezy conditions expected Thursday night into Friday
as high pressure slowly builds into the area. Temperatures 
Thursday night should fall into the 20s. High temperatures on 
Friday will be much cooler compared to Thursday with readings 
below normal in the mid to upper 30s.

&&

.LONG TERM /SATURDAY THROUGH WEDNESDAY/...
Another amplifying southern branch storm system will lift out of
the Mid Mississippi Valley Saturday, tracking to the north and 
west of the forecast area Saturday night into Sunday. At the 
same time, the polar vortex descends south and east out of central
Canada. Shortwave energy out ahead of it interacts with the 
aforementioned low with explosive deepening Sunday into Sunday 
night. There is some uncertainty with how quickly the cold air 
to start on Saturday retreats to the northeast, but strong 
thermal forcing will produce widespread precipitation across the
area beginning Saturday afternoon and night. This will likely 
begin as snow everywhere with a changeover from south to north 
starting at the coast late afternoon with most locations
becoming all rain around or shortly after midnight. There could
be a few pockets of surface temperatures around freezing well 
north and west of the NYC metro until around daybreak. Thus, 
looking at the potential for an advisory level event inland 
with a combination of snow and ice. Coastal locations are 
expected to see a quicker changeover with perhaps a light 
snowfall accumulation during the afternoon hours Saturday. 

For Sunday, the area gets into the warm sector as low pressure 
passes to the north and west with a gusty southerly flow, especially
for coastal locations. There is even a low chance at this time 
for an embedded thunderstorms just south of the area in warm 
conveyor belt showers. This will be refined as we get closer to 
the event. Highs on Sunday in the warm sector are forecast to 
get will into the 40s and possibly the lower 50s across NYC and 
LI. A strong cold front will then pass through late Sunday 
afternoon and evening. There are some timing issues with the 12Z
operational runs with the GFS being the fastest. At this time, 
saw no reason to defer from the NBM. More importantly, a piece 
of arctic air associated with the polar vortex dropping across 
the Great Lakes Sunday night into Monday will bring in a much 
colder airmass for the first half of next week. This will be 
accompanied by a gusty WNW flow Sunday night into Tuesday. Highs
will top out in the upper 20s to lower 30s with lows getting 
into the teens for Tuesday and Wednesday mornings. Leaned a bit 
colder than the NBM based on 2m temps in many of the operational
runs and the magnitude of the cold air coming down with 85h 
temps over the area on Tuesday around -20C.

Cold high pressure builds in for Wednesday with some uncertainty
with the southern branch storm track. The GFS is aggressive in 
taking low pressure up the east coast late Wednesday. This 
hinges on the amount of energy left in the northern branch back 
across the Great Lakes and the amount of phasing and/or interaction
between the two stream. However, it is much too early to have 
any certainty at this point in time, but something to watch. For
the time, there are low chances for snow late Wednesday.

&&

.AVIATION /06Z THURSDAY THROUGH MONDAY/...
A warm front passes through this morning, followed by a cold 
front this afternoon. High pressure then builds in tonight.

Rain across the southern terminals with IFR to LIFR. Across the
interior, a wintry mix is likely with snow, mixing with rain 
and sleet, also with IFR to LIFR. At KSWF a period of freezing 
rain is possible before going over to plain rain early this 
morning. Timing of the precipitation type changeover is 
uncertain and may be later than forecast. Once precipitation 
ends, conditions will fairly quickly return to VFR late 
this afternoon.

Less than 1 inch of snow/sleet accumulation expected north of 
New York City, with a glaze of ice possible at KSWF.

E/NE flow overnight, with gusts to around 20 kt along the coast, may 
briefly become light and variable as the warm front passes through 
this morning. Winds then become S/SW , and then W this afternoon 
with gusts around 25 kt. Late afternoon into Thursday evening winds 
become W/NW with gusts to around 30 kt, and briefly higher.

 ...NY Metro (KEWR/KLGA/KJFK/KTEB) TAF Uncertainty... 

Amendments likely for changing flight categories before late
this afternoon, then becoming VFR.

Peak gusts to around 30 kt possible late Thursday into Thursday 
evening, then diminishing.

.OUTLOOK FOR 06Z FRIDAY THROUGH MONDAY... 

Late tonight: VFR. W/NW gusts around 25 kt, occasionally up to 
30 kt along the coast.

Friday: VFR. NW wind gusts 25 to 30 kt during the day.

Saturday - Sunday: Low pres could bring a wintry mix changing to 
rain mainly late Sat into Sun. The rain could be locally hvy.
LLWS possible along with IFR.

Monday: VFR with gusty W flow.

Detailed information, including hourly TAF wind component forecasts, 
can be found at: https:/www.weather.gov/zny/n90

&&

.MARINE...
E flow continues to increase overnight leading to SCA 
conditions on all waters. The flow on the non-ocean waters 
should decrease below SCA levels Thursday morning, but continue 
to be strong enough for 25 kt gusts on the ocean. Ocean seas 
will also remain elevated during day Thursday. NW flow then 
increases Thursday night leading to gales on the ocean and the 
likelihood of another round of SCA conditions on the non-ocean 
waters. Have issued a Gale Warning for Thursday night on the 
ocean. Since there is currently an SCA for tonight on the non- 
ocean with a lull in the strongest flow Thursday, have held off 
on any advisory on the non-ocean for Thursday night at this 
time. Winds should remain at SCA levels Friday, but should start
weaken through the afternoon. Seas will remain elevated.

Sub-SCA conditions may linger into early evening Friday for the
eastern ocean waters, otherwise high pressure builds in through
Saturday morning before giving way to another storm system
Saturday afternoon into Sunday. SCA conditions are forecast to
redevelop on the ocean waters late Saturday night and across 
all waters Sunday in a strengthening southerly flow ahead of an 
approaching cold front and deepening low pressure passing to the
northwest. Gales are possible on the ocean Sunday afternoon, 
but temperature profiles may be too inverted to mix down gale 
force winds to the surface. However, behind a strong cold frontal
passage late Sunday afternoon into evening, a westerly gale will
be possible across all waters Sunday night into Monday.

&&

.HYDROLOGY...
There are no hydrologic concerns through the period.

&&

.TIDES/COASTAL FLOODING...
With a recent full moon and increasing easterly to
southeasterly flow, this will allow for building waves and 
increase the surge tonight into early Thursday. Result will be 
higher total water levels across the coast. Surge models have 
trended a few tenths of a foot higher than the previous day. 
Minor coastal flooding is expected for much of the coastline 
early Thursday as forecast surge reaches around 2 feet.

The total water level forecast for early Thursday reaches or
exceeds minor flood benchmarks for much of the coastline. The 
total water level forecast took a blend of ETSS, ESTOFS, 50th 
and 95th NY HOPS ensemble surge guidance. Wanted to go above the
average due to anticipated extra surge. Plus, previous high 
tide cycle earlier today with respect to the NY HOPS surge 
ensemble, ended up verifying more within the upper bounds of 
that ensemble.

Have issued coastal flood advisories where total water level 
forecast exceeds minor coastal flood benchmarks by at least a
few tenths of a foot. The total water level in some locations 
within the advisory may approach close to respective moderate 
coastal flood benchmarks such as within some parts of the South 
Shore Bays but all coastline forecasts at this time for early 
Thursday high tide are below moderate coastal flood benchmarks.
Have issued coastal flood statements where total water level 
forecast approaches to just touches respective minor coastal 
flood benchmarks.

Concerning erosion, just minor beach erosion expected with
some minor beach flooding but dune erosion is not expected. The
ocean waves are forecast to increase to 6 to 9 ft late tonight 
into early Thursday but will not be breaking directly against 
coast. The strongest winds tonight into early Thursday will be 
more easterly and not as perpendicular to the shoreline. When 
the winds become more southerly Thursday and more perpendicular 
to the shoreline, they will be decreasing.

Winds further become westerly behind a cold front Thursday 
afternoon, and that will really decrease the surge. Subsequent
high tide cycles are not expected to have any coastal flooding 
for late Thursday through Friday night.

&&

.OKX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CT...Winter Weather Advisory until 9 AM EST this morning for 
     CTZ005>008.
     Coastal Flood Advisory from 9 AM this morning to 2 PM EST this 
     afternoon for CTZ009.
NY...Winter Weather Advisory until 9 AM EST this morning for 
     NYZ067>070.
     Coastal Flood Advisory from 9 AM this morning to 2 PM EST this 
     afternoon for NYZ071.
     Coastal Flood Advisory from 6 AM to 11 AM EST this morning for 
     NYZ074-075.
     Coastal Flood Advisory from 6 AM this morning to noon EST 
     today for NYZ178-179.
NJ...Winter Weather Advisory until 9 AM EST this morning for NJZ002-
     103.
     Coastal Flood Advisory from 6 AM to 11 AM EST this morning for 
     NJZ006-106-108.
MARINE...Small Craft Advisory until 6 AM EST early this morning for 
     ANZ331-332-335-338-340-345.
     Small Craft Advisory until 6 PM EST this evening for ANZ350-
     353-355.
     Gale Warning from 6 PM this evening to 6 AM EST Friday for 
     ANZ350-353-355.

&&

$$

SYNOPSIS...DS/DW
NEAR TERM...JE/DS
SHORT TERM...DS
LONG TERM...DW
AVIATION...JC/MET
MARINE...DS/DW
HYDROLOGY...DS/DW
TIDES/COASTAL FLOODING...
