326 
FXUS61 KOKX 090532
AFDOKX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service New York NY
1232 AM EST Thu Jan 9 2025

.SYNOPSIS...
Low pressure will remain nearly stationary up to our north 
across the Canadian Maritimes, while high pressure builds in 
slowly from the west through Friday. Low pressure passes to the 
south and east Saturday into Saturday night. High pressure then 
builds in for Sunday and weakens over the area into early next 
week.

&&

.NEAR TERM /THROUGH TODAY/...
Have hoisted a wind advisory for this update as there seems to
be enough support for at least scattered gusts of 45 to 50 mph 
into the morning and through the day. Some of the higher res 
guidance not as bullish with the exception of the NAM 3km. RAP 
and FV3 also are supportive of wind advisory criteria being met 
despite the fact that inversion around 5kft may lower some later
in the day. Thus winds were increased late in the overnight and
into Thu based on the 00Z data. NAM most bullish with 50-60kt 
at h85 and subsidence. HRRR not as bullish but in real close now
so it was time to issue adv despite some uncertainty. Bottom 
line, winds have had a history of overachieving in this recent 
regime of NW flow, and with a potent shortwave pivoting through 
and the gradient tightening up further on the synoptic scale, 
thought it was prudent to just go ahead and issue the advisory.

An upper trough across the Northeast and into eastern Canada 
will slowly retreat to the NE during this time, while ridging 
builds in from the west. This will result in continued cold 
advection and gusty NW winds. Expect to see wind gusts 25 to 40
mph overnight, with some isolated gusts closer to 45 mph. 
Sustained winds of 20 to 30 mph on Thursday, with gusts of 45 to
50 mph are now expected. 

Tonight will likely be the coldest night of the week with lows 
in the teens for all but the NYC metro, where it should get to 
the lower 20s. The gusty winds prevent radiational cooling, 
keeping temperatures only about 5 to 8 degrees below normal.
Maximum temperatures on Thursday with highs in the upper 20s to 
around 30 inland, to the lower and middle 30s at the coast.

&&

.SHORT TERM /TONIGHT THROUGH 6 PM FRIDAY/...
Winds will gradually subside through Friday as weakening high 
pressure builds in from the west. Expect gusts to drop off to
about 20 mph in the afternoon. Temperatures return close to
normal levels with lows in the 20s and highs in the mid and 
upper 30s.

&&

.LONG TERM /FRIDAY NIGHT THROUGH WEDNESDAY/...
12z forecast models continue to be in good agreement with not 
much change from previous forecast. 

A lack of phasing between the northern and southern stream 
troughs will result in low pressure emerging off the Carolina 
coast late Friday night into Saturday morning. The low will 
gradually strengthen well south and east of the 40N/70W 
benchmark Saturday afternoon into evening. Forecast guidance 
continues to show most of the precipitation either completely 
missing the area or the bulk of the precipitation remaining 
offshore with just a glancing chance for some light 
precipitation. Will continue to cap PoPs at chance late Friday 
night through Saturday afternoon. Overall higher chances will be
across the southern zones, closer to the offshore storm. Even 
if the northern periphery of its precip shield doesn't reach us,
can't completely rule out snow showers for the entire forecast 
area in association with the northern stream energy shifting 
through the area. Should any snowfall occur Friday night through
Saturday, there's increasing confidence that accumulations 
would be light. Right now, looking at snowfall amounts between a
trace to half an inch.

High pressure returns behind the departing system Saturday night 
through Sunday, then weakens over the region Monday and Tuesday. 
Expect mostly dry conditions through this period. Temperatures will 
remain rather cold through the long term, with highs in the 30s each 
day.

&&

.AVIATION /06Z THURSDAY THROUGH MONDAY/...
The terminals will remain between strong low pressure to the 
northeast and strong high pressure to the west.

VFR. 

Strong flow around 300-310 true through the TAF period. Gusts
around 30kt this morning increasing to 35-40 kt with peak gusts
around 45 kt. Winds begin to diminish after 00z Friday with 
gusts decreasing to 30-35 kt in the evening and then 25-30 kt 
early Friday morning.

...NY Metro (KEWR/KLGA/KJFK/KTEB) TAF Uncertainty...

Occasional gusts 35-40 kt through 12z becoming frequent
thereafter. Peak gusts around 45 kt possible late morning into
the afternoon.

OUTLOOK FOR 06Z FRIDAY THROUGH MONDAY...

Tonight: VFR with gusty NW winds.

Friday: VFR. NW wind gusts 20 kt in the morning.

Saturday: MVFR/IFR possible. Chance of light snow. NW gusts 20 kt 
possible. 

Sunday-Monday: VFR. 

Detailed information, including hourly TAF wind component forecasts, 
can be found at: https:/www.weather.gov/zny/n90

&&

.MARINE...
Gale Warnings will continue into Thursday evening due to a
continued strong NW flow between deep low pressure over the 
Canadian Maritimes and high pressure building in from the west. 
Later Thursday night gale conditions will give way to small 
craft conditions as the winds gradually come down. Heading into
Friday afternoon, ocean seas are forecast to fall below 5 ft 
and wind gusts below 25 kt. 

Sub-advisory conditions likely continue through Saturday night, then 
SCA conditions will be possible Saturday night into Sunday with a 
pressure gradient tightening behind a storm strengthening well-
offshore. Sub-SCA conditions return for the start of next week as 
high pressure builds over the area waters.

&&

.HYDROLOGY...
No significant hydrologic issues anticipated through early next
week.

&&

.OKX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CT...Wind Advisory until 10 PM EST this evening for CTZ005>012.
NY...Wind Advisory until 10 PM EST this evening for NYZ067>075-
     078>081-176>179.
NJ...Wind Advisory until 10 PM EST this evening for NJZ002-004-006-
     103>108.
MARINE...Gale Warning until 10 PM EST this evening for ANZ331-332-335-
     338-340-345.
     Gale Warning until 1 AM EST Friday for ANZ350-353-355.

&&

$$

SYNOPSIS...BC/DW
NEAR TERM...JE/DW
SHORT TERM...DW
LONG TERM...BC
AVIATION...JMC/DS
MARINE...BC/DW
HYDROLOGY...BC/DW
