083 
FXUS61 KOKX 041049
AFDOKX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service New York NY
549 AM EST Sat Jan 4 2025

.SYNOPSIS...
The region remains between low pressure to the north and east with 
high pressure to the south and west through this weekend. A quick 
moving low pressure system passes through the Mid Atlantic on Monday 
and offshore Monday night. Behind it, strong Canadian high 
pressure builds in from the west through late next week.

&&

.NEAR TERM /THROUGH TONIGHT/...
Upper trough axis to our east this morning shifts farther east, but 
we'll remain under a cyclonic flow aloft. At the surface, a tight 
pressure gradient continues with broad low pressure to our south and 
east, and broad high pressure to our south and west. WNW flow may be 
able to transport some lake effect flurries. Highs in the mid 
30s for coastal areas and low 30s inland. Wind gusts of mostly 
25 to 35 mph today with a gust or two up to around 40 mph 
possible. Wind chills in the teens this morning and only lower 
to mid 20s this afternoon. Dry for the overnight hours with 
diminishing winds. Lows generally in the 20s.

&&

.SHORT TERM /SUNDAY THROUGH MONDAY NIGHT/...
Not much of a change in the surface features for Sunday although 
high pressure to our south and west weakens as low pressure 
strengthens in the lower MS Valley. This will promote winds a little 
lighter than today over here. Highs again in the mid 30s for coastal 
areas and low 30s inland.

Models remain in very good agreement regarding low pressure which 
will be passing to our south Monday into Monday night. A trough axis 
aloft with an embedded shortwave will shift east through the OH and 
TN Valleys. This will strengthen a surface low which will emerge off 
the NC coast late in the day Monday into Monday evening and shift 
more east than northeast through the night as the trough doesn't 
become negatively tilted until late at night. The 00z run of several 
global models have either kept virtually the same storm track or 
shifted slightly south from their 12z counterparts yesterday. A 
shift south in the northern extent of qpf is a overall a little more 
noticeable. Still have likely PoPs for most of the city, south shore 
of LI, and some of NE NJ, but the liquid qpf and snow amount 
forecasts are a little lower from the previous forecast. Most spots 
are likely to see less than an inch of snow. Most of southern CT and 
the Lower Hudson Valley stand a decent chance of not receiving 
snowfall. Snow looks to be most likely from mid-late morning Monday 
through late afternoon, possibly lingering into early evening. Dry 
then afterwards with the storm heading farther east out to sea. 
Highs Monday in the upper 20s to lower 30s.

&&

.LONG TERM /TUESDAY THROUGH FRIDAY/...
Key Points:

* Cold, windy, and predominantly dry conditions are expected mid to 
  late next week. 

In the wake of passing low pressure to the south, strong Canadian 
surface high drops south out into the Plains, then begins to build 
west into late week. This will not only reinforce the cold air mass 
in place, but maintain a tight pressure gradient between the high 
and sprawling low pressure anchored over far eastern Canada. With 
it, blustery conditions are likely Tuesday thru at least Thursday.
And while temperatures will not necessarily be record breaking, the 
air mass will run about 10 degrees below normal and keep most at or 
below the freezing mark for at least several days. Add the wind 
component and the region could experience wind chills persistently 
in the single digits and teens.

By late next week, a closed low over the Southwest may eject east 
and attempt to interact with a northern branch disturbance diving 
south. Many different solutions at this point, but will be a period 
to watch for the next chance of appreciable precipitation should 
timing of these features line up.

&&

.AVIATION /12Z SATURDAY THROUGH WEDNESDAY/...
A sprawling area of low pressure remains centered well to the north 
this weekend, continuing the W to NW flow.

VFR through the TAF period.

Winds veer WNW/NW early this morning as speeds increase to 15-20G30-
35kt by 15Z. Speeds lower slightly overnight into Sunday AM, but 
gusts up to 25 kt persist at all terminals.

 ...NY Metro (KEWR/KLGA/KJFK/KTEB) TAF Uncertainty...

Occasional gusts up to 40 kt possible this afternoon.

OUTLOOK FOR 06Z SUNDAY THROUGH WEDNESDAY...

Late tonight: VFR. WNW wind 10-15 kt, gusts 25 kt, especially along 
the coast.

Sunday: VFR. W gusts 20-25kt. MVFR with a chance of light snow at 
the NYC metro terminals toward Monday morning.

Monday: IFR at the NYC metro terminals and KISP with snow. MVFR, IFR 
possible, with light snow at the other terminals.

Tuesday: VFR. WNW winds 15-20kt, gusts 25-30kt.

Wednesday: VFR. W gusts 20-25kt.

Detailed information, including hourly TAF wind component forecasts, 
can be found at: https:/www.weather.gov/zny/n90

&&

.MARINE...
SCA conditions expected on all waters through Sunday with a 
persistent gusty WNW flow. There could be a gust or two to gale 
force on the ocean, but that should be the extent of such gusts. 
Winds diminish Sunday night with a weaker pressure gradient with 
advisory conditions ending by late at night. Next chance of advisory 
conditions then arrives Monday night with northerly winds picking up 
in the wake of low pressure passing well to the SE.

Small Craft Advisory conditions are even more likely Tuesday, 
continuing through late next week for all waters with gusty NW 
flow. Possible gale force gusts on the ocean at times Tuesday 
thru Thursday. Given the flow's persistence, seas on the ocean 
likely rise to 7 to 8 feet midweek. Waves on the LI Sound may 
also reach 5 to 6 feet

&&

.HYDROLOGY...
No significant hydrologic issues anticipated through the end of
next week.

&&

.OKX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CT...None.
NY...None.
NJ...None.
MARINE...Small Craft Advisory until 7 PM EST Sunday for ANZ331-332-335-
     338-340-345-350-353-355.

&&

$$

SYNOPSIS...JC/DR
NEAR TERM...JC
SHORT TERM...JC
LONG TERM...DR
AVIATION...DR
MARINE...JC
HYDROLOGY...JC/DR
