585 
FXUS61 KOKX 150836
AFDOKX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service New York NY
436 AM EDT Sat Mar 15 2025

.SYNOPSIS...
Weak offshore high pressure remains in control into this evening.
A warm front lifts through tonight, and is followed by a strong 
cold front Sunday night into Monday. High pressure then begins to
build into the area through midweek. A fast moving frontal system
approaches next Thursday, potentially impacting the area to end 
next week. 

&&

.NEAR TERM /THROUGH TONIGHT/...
Stratus, fog, mist, and patchy drizzle across much of the area 
early this morning with light onshore flow saturating the low
levels. Vsbys have largely remained above a quarter mile as of 
8Z, and fog seems to more patchy in nature, however will 
continue to monitor trends toward with anticipation of 
declining conditions toward daybreak. Slow improvement thru late
morning with mist and drizzle tapering as well.

Otherwise, weak high pressure nearby exits further out into the
Atlantic today, with a persistent light SE/S flow continuing. 
The area likely remains largely overcast through the day, but 
a few breaks are possible in the afternoon. Into tonight, as a 
sub 980 mb surface low cuts north over the Upper Great Lakes 
and into Ontario, an attendant warm front to the south will lift
through locally. A few showers may develop as the frontal 
boundary works through late this evening and into the 
overnight, but QPF is light with this activity, and some may 
remain dry initially.

Temperatures top out in the mid 50s for northeast NJ, NYC, the 
Lower Hudson Valley, and interior CT, and around 50 along the 
coast with the flow off the cooler waters. Overnight remains
relatively mild with the warm front moving through, lows in the
40s.

&&

.SHORT TERM /SUNDAY THROUGH MONDAY/...
Strengthening southerly flow Sunday as the warm front passes 
north and the pressure gradient tightens with the surface low
moving closer. The first half of the day likely remains mostly 
dry, though chances begin to quickly increase by late afternoon 
and early evening ahead of a potent associated cold front 
sweeping east.

A feed of deep moisture will combine with strong lift from the
front and result in widespread moderate to locally heavy 
rainfall Sunday evening and night. Progged PWATs of around 1.5 
inches are about as high as measured this time of year and 
highlight the potential for rainfall rates to approach or exceed
0.50 in per hour at times. This may lead to flooding of urban 
and poor drainage areas, and localized flash flooding cannot be 
ruled out. With only weak instability and a strong low level 
inversion, limited mention of thunder to slight chance and just 
over western portions of the area should expected activity 
survive before reaching the more stable environment as it works
east. Though winds just off the surface are expected to be
sharply increase with a 70 kt LLJ at 900 mb sliding overhead, a
strong inversion should help limit how much is able to mix down
to the surface. Still, anticipating widespread 35 to 45 mph 
gusts Sunday afternoon through the first half of Sunday night. 
Once the cold front starts moving through early Monday morning, 
the guidance is hinting at low pressure developing along the 
front to our south. This trend needs to be monitored because it 
could result in higher rainfall totals for the eastern half of 
the area. This process looks to be aided by the area being right
under a right entrance region of an upper level jet. Total 
rainfall of around an inch for the Lower Hudson Valley increases
to around two inches for eastern CT and LI. Localized amounts 
could be as high as three inches in these areas. Gradual drying 
from west to east Monday as the system exits, though showers may
persist across eastern areas into the afternoon before this 
occurs.

&&

.LONG TERM /MONDAY NIGHT THROUGH FRIDAY/...
Key Points

*Dry conditions return Monday night and should prevail through mid 
week.

*Another frontal system potentially impacts the area to end the week 
bringing the next chance for showers, mainly Thursday and Thursday 
night.

*Temperatures look to average above normal next week. 

The deepest moisture associated with the frontal system late Sunday 
night into Monday should reside offshore by Monday night.
However, model guidance has been indicating potential for a wave to 
form on the front, which may linger a few showers across eastern 
Long Island and southeast Connecticut Monday evening.
The passage of the upper trough axis will help push this further 
offshore into Tuesday morning with high pressure building into the 
region. An upper ridge will then take shape for the mid week period. 
A piece of the departing shortwave likely becomes a cutoff low 
somewhere over the Western Atlantic, but will stay far enough away 
from the region for no impact to our sensible weather. 

The next amplifying shortwave will begin approaching Wednesday night 
into Thursday. The deterministic global models and ensemble means 
are in good agreement on the associated frontal system quickly 
sweeping across the area Thursday into Thursday night. Have held 
onto a 50 percent chance for showers late Thursday/Thursday night 
for now since this is still about a week out. The system also 
encounters lingering subsidence on the backside of the offshore 
closed low, which may limit moisture return until the system moves 
into the area. The latest NBM probabilities for observing greater 
than 1 inch in a 12 or 24 period with this system are low and less 
than 10 percent at this time.

The front should be offshore next Friday, but the upper trough may 
be overhead and could become a cutoff low somewhere over New England 
or southeast Canada. While it will likely be dry, cooler conditions 
may return with temperatures struggling to rise out of the 40s. 
Otherwise, above normal temperatures are expected through the week.

&&

.AVIATION /08Z SATURDAY THROUGH WEDNESDAY/...
High pressure slowly moves offshore with a warm front approaching 
late in the TAF period.

Low stratus and fog continue to overspread the area terminals
tonight and will remain in place through the middle portion of 
Saturday morning. Generally IFR and LIFR conditions are expected
though there may be some brief periods of MVFR. Also, expect 
areas of drizzle late tonight into early Saturday morning. 

IFR conditions expected into Saturday morning with forecast 
improvement to MVFR and possibly briefly VFR Saturday 
afternoon. Conditions are expected to lower back to IFR or lower
Saturday night. Drizzle once again likely with light rain
showers possible Saturday night.

Winds generally S-SE near 5-10 kts this afternoon. Winds become 
lighter and more variable in direction tonight before resuming a SE 
flow Saturday. Wind speeds overall will not change much.

 ...NY Metro (KEWR/KLGA/KJFK/KTEB) TAF Uncertainty...

Timing of categorical changes could be a few hours off from TAF.

.OUTLOOK FOR 06Z SUNDAY THROUGH WEDNESDAY...

Saturday night: MVFR/IFR. LIFR possible. Chance of rain 
showers. Areas of fog. Gusty SW wind gusts near 20 kt developing
late.

Sunday: Areas of fog early with IFR to LIFR possible. S-SW wind 
gusts near 30-40 kt. LLWS possible. Slight chance of rain showers, 
rain shower chances increase late afternoon, becoming likely north 
and west of NYC terminals. Rain showers expected at night, heavy at 
times. Possible thunderstorms at night near and north and west of 
NYC terminals.

Monday: Rain showers early, mainly east of NYC terminals with MVFR 
to IFR possible. Rain showers taper off afternoon into night from 
west to east. Conditions eventually return to VFR. Possible NW wind 
gusts afternoon into early evening to 20 kt.

Tuesday: VFR.

Wednesday: VFR.

Detailed information, including hourly TAF wind component
forecasts, can be found at: https:/www.weather.gov/zny/n90

&&

.MARINE...
Areas of patchy fog are likely this morning, and could be dense
at times. Visibilities could fall to less than 1 nm. Will 
continue to monitor conditions should a headline be needed.

Sub SCA conditions expected on all waters through tonight.
Southerly flow then strengthens overnight and Sunday ahead of 
an approaching frontal system. A Gale Watch has been issued for 
all waters from 6AM Sunday through 6AM Monday. On the ocean, 35 
to 40 kt gusts are possible with 10 to 13 foot seas. On all non 
ocean waters, gusts will likely be closer to 35 kt. A cold front
moves through early Monday and winds quickly lower behind below
25 kt. Ocean seas likely liner aoa 5 ft into Tuesday. Winds on 
the waters then remain below SCA levels thru midweek. 

&&

.HYDROLOGY...
A frontal system is expected to produce a widespread 1 to 2 
inches of rain Sunday evening through Monday. The highest totals
are expected over eastern CT and LI, where localized amounts
could be as high as 2.5 to 3 inches. Heavy downpours could lead
to nuisance flooding in urban and poor drainage areas,
especially Sunday night and Monday morning. While localized
flash flooding cannot be ruled out, the overall risk is low.

No hydrologic impacts are expected thereafter thru late next
week.

&&

.OKX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CT...None.
NY...None.
NJ...None.
MARINE...Gale Watch from Sunday morning through late Sunday night for 
     ANZ331-332-335-338-340-345-350-353-355.

&&

$$

SYNOPSIS...DR/DS
NEAR TERM...DR
SHORT TERM...DR
LONG TERM...DS
AVIATION...MW
MARINE...DR
HYDROLOGY...DR
