306 
FXUS61 KOKX 220710
AFDOKX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service New York NY
310 AM EDT Fri Aug 22 2025

.SYNOPSIS...
High pressure builds in from the west through Friday and moves 
offshore Friday night through Saturday. A frontal system 
approaches Sunday and moves through the area Sunday night into 
Monday. High pressure then gradually builds in for the middle to
end of next week.

&&

.NEAR TERM /THROUGH TONIGHT/...
Hurricane Erin continues to track northeast into the open 
Atlantic today as high pressure builds in from the west. Please
refer to the National Hurricane Center for further information 
on Erin. The high will build overhead tonight, then moves 
offshore. Dry weather is expected through tonight. Winds 
continue to diminish today, and then a light return flow sets up
tonight. Temperatures return to normal levels with clear skies.

&&

.SHORT TERM /SATURDAY THROUGH SATURDAY NIGHT/...
Dry weather continues as offshore high pressure continues to
drift east, and as a frontal system approaches to the west.
Temperatures remain near normal Saturday, and slightly above
normal Saturday night as a southerly flow continues, and dew
points increase. Also clouds will increase in advance of an
approaching frontal system

&&

.LONG TERM /SUNDAY THROUGH THURSDAY/...
The NBM was largely followed with this update with no major changes. 

Key Points:

* Shower/thunderstorm chances late Sunday into Monday. Mainly 
  dry conditions thereafter.

* Generally normal temperatures into Monday night, then slightly
  below for the remainder of the week.

The global models are in decent agreement on the upcoming 
synoptic pattern. Upper ridge axis shifts east of the area 
Sunday. A deep closed low over eastern Canada with an h5 trough 
over the eastern 2/3 of the CONUS then follows for much of the 
rest of the extended timeframe. This will keep the local area in
predominately west/southwest flow aloft.

At the sfc, a cold front approaches on Sunday into early Monday with 
precipitation chances increasing from west to east Sunday afternoon. 
PWATs do increase to 1-1.5" ahead of the front, which suggests the 
possibility of heavier rainfall with any deeper convection. However, 
depending on the timing of the frontal passage, which looks to be 
late on Sunday into very early Monday, instability will be limited 
per BUFKIT soundings, so not expecting much in the way of widespread 
thunder. North and west of NYC would see the best chance of thunder, 
late Sunday afternoon/evening. The front passes through the area on 
Monday and is offshore by early Tuesday. High pressure then builds 
back in from the Central Plains, for the remainder of the
period.

&&

.AVIATION /06Z FRIDAY THROUGH TUESDAY/...
Hurricane Erin passes well east-southeast of the area overnight
as high pressure gradually builds from the west, then southwest
later today. Please refer to the National Hurricane Center for 
further information on Hurricane Erin.

VFR through the period. NE winds and gusts steadily lessen 
overnight, but then increase to N 10-15g20kt for morning push. 
Winds and gusts should then subside after 18-19z this afternoon.
Weak late day S seabreezes develop for most terminals, 
otherwise a Light/variable S/SSW flow for the evening push.

 ...NY Metro (KEWR/KLGA/KJFK/KTEB) TAF Uncertainty...

Gusts will be occasional overnight, becoming more frequent to 20kt 
during morning push and continue into midday. Gusts may end as early 
as 18-19z in the afternoon, and possibly 1-2 hours earlier. Winds 
will likely be veered a bit more NE for KLGA. Late day S seabreeze 
likely for JFK/KLGA, and SE for KEWR.

.OUTLOOK FOR 06Z SATURDAY THROUGH TUESDAY...

Late Friday night thru Saturday: VFR.

Sunday and Monday: Scattered showers Sun PM through Mon PM, 
isolated tstm possible in the aft/eve. MVFR conds possible Sun 
AM, and Sun night into Mon AM.

Tuesday: VFR

Detailed information, including hourly TAF wind component forecasts, 
can be found at: https:/www.weather.gov/zny/n90

&&

.MARINE...
Hurricane Erin continues to track northeast into the open 
Atlantic today as high pressure builds in from the west. Please
refer to the National Hurricane Center for further information 
on Erin.

Winds and gusts have diminished more quickly than expected, and
as a result gusts have fallen below gale force across the ocean
waters. Therefore the Gale Warning was replaced with Small Craft
Advisories on the ocean waters west of Moriches Inlet through
midday Saturday, and east of Moriches Inlet through the day
Saturday, when ocean seas will have fallen below 5 feet, as
swells subside. Conditions then remain below advisory levels 
into mid next week.

For the non ocean waters, a SCA remains in effect until early
this morning for the eastern Long Island Sound and eastern bays,
With improved conditions the advisory was cancelled for New York
Harbor and the Long Island Sound southern bays. Otherwise sub
advisory conditions continue into mid next week.

&&

.HYDROLOGY...
There are no hydrologic concerns through the middle of next
week.

&&

.TIDES/COASTAL FLOODING...
A High Surf Advisory remains in effect for all Atlantic Ocean 
Beaches through Friday as residual swell from Hurricane Erin 
continues a life threatening surf and rip current threat. A High
Rip Current Risk was extended through early Saturday evening,
and may be needed into Sunday morning for the Atlantic Ocean
beaches as swells continue to slowly subside. Please refer to 
the National Hurricane Center for further information on Erin.

Surf is peaking at this time, and expected to subside to 5 to 9
ft across western beaches and 6 to 10 ft across eastern beaches
Friday morning, and then gradually fall further to 3 to 6 ft 
for western beaches and 4 to 7 ft for eastern beaches by Friday 
evening.

The threat for widespread areas of dune erosion and localized 
overwashes has ended for the evening high tide. Areas of dune
erosion and beach flooding are expected for the Friday morning 
high tide, but the potential for localized overwashes is low as 
water levels will be lower than this evening. The threat for 
dune erosion will become more scattered for the Friday evening 
high tide, with beach erosion and escarpment the primary threat 
with a west to east sweeping surf. 

The threat for widespread moderate coastal flooding has come to
and end for the southern bays of NYC/LI, with generally minor 
to localized moderate flooding threat for the north facing 
exposed shoreline areas along the south fork and Orient Point 
due to to enhanced wave action through around midnight. 
Elsewhere minor coastal flood impacts along western LI Sound 
through around 1am.

Additional rounds of minor flooding are expected with Friday 
morning and Friday evening's high tide cycles, particularly for 
the southern bays of LI and NYC, and along the oceanfront.

&&

.OKX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CT...Coastal Flood Advisory from 10 PM this evening to 2 AM EDT 
     Saturday for CTZ009.
NY...Coastal Flood Advisory from 10 PM this evening to 2 AM EDT 
     Saturday for NYZ071.
     Coastal Flood Advisory from 6 PM to 11 PM EDT this evening for 
     NYZ072-074-075.
     High Risk for Rip Currents through Saturday evening for NYZ075-080-
     081-178-179.
     High Surf Advisory until 8 PM EDT this evening for NYZ075-080-
     081-178-179.
     Coastal Flood Warning until 3 AM EDT early this morning for 
     NYZ079-081.
     Coastal Flood Advisory until 2 PM EDT this afternoon for 
     NYZ079-081.
     Coastal Flood Advisory until 1 PM EDT this afternoon for 
     NYZ080-178-179.
     Coastal Flood Advisory from 6 PM this evening to 2 AM EDT 
     Saturday for NYZ080-178-179.
NJ...Coastal Flood Advisory from 6 PM to 11 PM EDT this evening for 
     NJZ006-106-108.
MARINE...Small Craft Advisory until 6 AM EDT early this morning for 
     ANZ331-332-340.
     Small Craft Advisory until 6 PM EDT Saturday for ANZ350.
     Small Craft Advisory until 2 PM EDT Saturday for ANZ353-355.

&&

$$

SYNOPSIS...MET
NEAR TERM...MET
SHORT TERM...MET
LONG TERM...
AVIATION...JE
MARINE...MET
HYDROLOGY...MET
TIDES/COASTAL FLOODING...
