326 
FXUS61 KOKX 131105
AFDOKX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service New York NY
705 AM EDT Sun Jul 13 2025

.SYNOPSIS...
The region will remain between a frontal system to the northwest and 
a departing high pressure area to the northeast. The associated cold 
front approaches Monday and moves across Monday night into early 
Tuesday. The frontal boundary then stays within the vicinity of the 
region through midweek. A cold front may approach the area by 
the end of the week.

&&

.NEAR TERM /UNTIL 6 PM THIS EVENING/...
The local area will be in between high pressure southeast Nova 
Scotia and a frontal system traversing slowly within SE Canada. 
The warm front is already well north and east of the region. 
The local region has light easterly flow today overall. 

Not expecting much in the way of measurable rainfall today. 
Think that most locations will not receive measurable rain. 
However, multiple CAMs indicate as well as more larger scale 
coarse resolution models small discrete areas of QPF or 
reflectivity traversing the local area. From BUFKIT sounding 
analysis, there is still drier air between 5 and 25 kft above 
the ground. From 5kft to the ground, there is enough depth of 
moisture to have some drizzle or rain sprinkles. The easterly 
flow is helping trap moisture in the low levels underneath an 
inversion around 5kft.

Otherwise, NBM has been too aggressive with its POPs for showers and 
thunderstorms. CAMs show a general lack of convection in the local 
area. Lowered manually the NBM POPs and now just in and around NW 
Orange has the chance for showers and thunderstorms.

For temperatures, used the NBM but manually lowered for locations 
within Southern Connecticut and Eastern Long Island. These locations 
will be on the lower end of high temperatures in the upper 70s while 
the warmest spots are in NE NJ and portions of the interior with 
highs in the upper 80s. 

With the humid airmass, heat indices or apparent temperatures still 
will be a few degrees warmer than the actual temperatures. However, 
the max heat indices are mostly in the lower 90s, below heat 
advisory criteria.

&&

.SHORT TERM /6 PM THIS EVENING THROUGH TUESDAY NIGHT/...
For tonight, the flow becomes more southeast. Clouds remain abundant 
and some patchy fog and drizzle may develop along parts of the 
region. Otherwise, small chance of a shower or thunderstorm to the 
northwest by Orange County NY.

Min temperatures were from NBM ranging only from the upper 
60s to lower 70s.

For early next week, frontal system from SE Canada approaches with 
an associated cold front. This cold front approaches from Monday and 
moves into the area Monday night. Chances for showers and 
thunderstorms increase across a larger fraction of the region. The 
front slows down as it exits early Tuesday. Continued chances for 
showers and thunderstorms.

Downward trend in POPs Tuesday into Tuesday night as cold front 
pushes farther south of Long Island.

Airmass gradually getting warmer early next week with synoptic flow 
becoming more southerly. Highs more in the 80s with some places 
reaching near 90 for Tuesday. Corresponding heat indices get more 
near the low to mid 90s, especially Tuesday.

&&

.LONG TERM /WEDNESDAY THROUGH SATURDAY/...
***Key Points***

*While still some uncertainty, there is the potential for a heat 
wave to continue Wednesday through Friday for many areas with max h 
eat index values between 95 and 100 (2-day Heat Advisory Criteria) 
for Wednesday and Friday and 100 to 105 possible for Thursday (1-day 
Heat Advisory criteria).

*Relatively active pattern with chances for several days of 
afternoon showers and thunderstorms.

A frontal boundary will likely stall just offshore and linger in the 
area Wednesday into Thursday. A frontal system may then impact the 
area later in the week. Aloft, the pattern stays the same through 
the period. Although we are under some high heights, we are somewhat 
on the eastern end of a broad upper level trough centered over 
central Canada and few shortwaves likely pass through.

With strong Bermuda high in place, a S/SW flow will allow plenty of 
moisture to be sent our way. This combined with above normal high 
temperatures brings some potential for a heat wave, with heat index 
of 95-100 currently expected Wednesday and Thursday, and 100 to 105 
for many spots on Thursday. However, there still is uncertainty 
especially given the potential for convection and slight 
inconsistencies in a late week frontal system among the guidance.

Too early to talk specifics when it comes to severe or flooding 
concerns with the aforementioned convection. These details will be 
ironed over the next few days. There is plenty of moisture around 
with pwats 1.50-2.00+ for much of the period so any convection that 
does develop will likely be able to produce heavy downpours. As for 
severe, while we are pretty unstable, shear looks weak through much 
of the period.

&&

.AVIATION /12Z SUNDAY THROUGH THURSDAY/...
Weak high pressure remains in place offshore through Sunday,
slowly drifting east through the day and into Sunday night.

Mostly MVFR through daybreak. Some IFR mainly east of the city 
terminals. For today, conds improve to VFR for most by noon. 
There is a chance the KGON does not improve to VFR, though the 
current forecast is for a brief period of VFR between 22Z today
and 00Z Monday. MVFR conditions move back into the area tonight,
with a chance of IFR for most terminals, but confidence is not 
high enough to put in the forecast just yet.

SE winds under 10 kt, becoming light and variable or a 
light E flow through daybreak. SE winds today at around 10 kt. 
There may be isolated gusts to around 15 kt during the late 
morning into the afternoon.

 ...NY Metro (KEWR/KLGA/KJFK/KTEB) TAF Uncertainty...

Low chance for IFR conditions through daybreak. For KJFK, IFR 
might not occur at all, or prevail for a few hours overnight. 
For KLGA/KEWR/KTEB, tempo IFR cigs possible through daybreak. 
If IFR occurs at any of these 3 terminals, chances are that it 
won't prevail for more than a few hours. 

.OUTLOOK FOR 06Z MONDAY THROUGH THURSDAY... 

Sunday night: Mostly MVFR, but IFR possible east of the city
terminals.

Monday: MVFR or lower in the afternoon and early evening with 
showers and thunderstorms likely.

Tuesday-Thursday: Mainly VFR. Showers or thunderstorm possible in 
the afternoon and evening.

Detailed information, including hourly TAF wind component forecasts, 
can be found at: https:/www.weather.gov/zny/n90

&&

.MARINE...
Marine weather statement for patchy dense fog until 10AM EDT for
ocean waters between Moriches Inlet and Montauk Point.
Visibilities will be reduced below a mile at times,

Weak pressure gradient continues with sub-SCA conditions on all
waters through early week.

With a weak pressure gradient, winds and waves likely remain below 
Small Craft Advisory criteria Wednesday through Thursday. A 
strengthening southwesterly flow ahead of an approaching cold front 
Thursday night will allow seas to build to 5 ft, especially from 
Fire Island to Montauk Point.  Additionally, a relatively active 
pattern is expected next week with chances of afternoon showers and 
thunderstorms for several days. Winds and waves will be higher in 
any storms.

&&

.HYDROLOGY...
Around a quarter to half inch of rain from late tonight through
Tuesday with locally higher amounts.

Possible minor flooding Monday into Monday night. Marginal risk
for flash flooding. PWATS get slightly above 2 inches. Parallel
flow low to mid levels allowing training of cells. HREF showing
potential for hourly rainfall rates getting to around 1 inch per
hour Monday evening.

In the long term, localized hydrologic impacts are possible due to 
thunderstorms from Wednesday through next weekend.

&&

.TIDES/COASTAL FLOODING...
For Atlantic Ocean beaches, the rip current risk today and 
Monday is moderate with an onshore flow near 10 kt, a 3 ft swell
from the southeast at a 7 to 8 sec, and added onshore swells, 
one of which is a long period swell.

&&

.OKX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CT...None.
NY...None.
NJ...None.
MARINE...None.

&&

$$

SYNOPSIS...JM/JP
NEAR TERM...JM
SHORT TERM...JM
LONG TERM...JP/JT
AVIATION...JP
MARINE...JM/JP
HYDROLOGY...JM/JP
TIDES/COASTAL FLOODING...
