251 
FXUS61 KOKX 161819
AFDOKX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service New York NY
219 PM EDT Sun Mar 16 2025

.SYNOPSIS...
A strong cold approaches from the west this evening, moving 
across the region Monday, before pushing offshore into Monday 
night. High pressure returns Tuesday and Wednesday. A fast 
moving frontal system moves across the area Thursday into 
Thursday night. High pressure may return Friday into next 
Saturday.

&&

.NEAR TERM /UNTIL 6 PM THIS EVENING/...
The bulk of the day appears dry with the region in the warm 
sector ahead of the approaching attendant cold front. A few
periods of drizzle have been added to parts of NYC metro and the
interior as more moisture filters in, but odds look low on it
occurring, despite CAMs showing a little bit of it. A blustery 
southerly wind develops by the early afternoon, with gusts 
likely topping 35 mph. Kept 45-50 mph gusts out of the 
forecast. Some 12Z CAMs were producing Wind Advisory gusts in 
parts of NYC and Long Island as a strong 925mb LLJ develops, but
looks like much of this may not be able to mix down due to a 
strong inversion in place.

Temperatures climb into the 60s away from the immediate coast 
as the warm front passes north, or about 10 to 15 degrees above 
normal for mid March.

&&

.SHORT TERM /6 PM THIS EVENING THROUGH MONDAY NIGHT/...
Increasing lift with the pre frontal trough leads to period of 
moderate to potentially heavy rainfall. Rain develops from west
to east this evening as a stream of deep moisture flows north 
ahead of the frontal boundary. In fact, PWATs approach 1.50 
inches into tonight, or about as high as measured locally this 
time of year. Weak elevated instability could lead to a few 
isolated rumbles of thunder early, though generally west of the
Hudson River as marine influence to the east helps to limit 
this potential.

In addition, a rather potent 60 to 70 kt LLJ at 925 mb slides 
overhead this evening, though the strongly inverted profile in 
the low levels will likely prevent the core of these winds from
reaching the surface. More likely, occasional gusts 30 to 40 
mph develop by late afternoon and continue thru this evening, 
with perhaps a few isolated gusts above 40 mph, especially with 
any low topped convection that can work in and help to mix winds
down.

Rainfall rates may approach or exceed half an inch per hour at 
times this evening, and local flooding of urban and poor 
drainage areas is possible. The entire region remains in a 
marginal risk of excessive rainfall, though the overall flash 
flood risk appears to be low. QPF ranges from around an inch for
locales north and west of NYC, to around two inches for eastern
LI and CT. The higher totals across the east will be associated
with the slower movement of the pre frontal and cold front as 
waves of low pressure develop as the front moves offshore.

As the cold front continues advancing offshore, a secondary 
wave of low pressure likely develops along the front and enhances
rainfall across eastern Long Island and southeast Connecticut 
Monday. Showers may persist in these areas thru Monday afternoon
before working far enough east to allow conditions to start to 
dry out. Elsewhere, expecting the bulk of the steadiest rain to
end by midday, if not sooner, with a just a few spotty showers 
possible thereafter.The front and associated wave should pass 
far enough offshore to bring an end to any showers by midnight 
across these areas. Otherwise, clouds will gradually clear from 
west to east through daybreak Tuesday.

&&

.LONG TERM /TUESDAY THROUGH SATURDAY/...
Key Points:

* Dry conditions return and prevail through midweek.

* Another frontal system moves across the area Thursday into 
  Thursday night bringing the next chance for showers.

* Temperatures look to average above through Thursday before
  trending near to slightly below normal to end the week.

The upper trough axis pushes east Tuesday morning as an upper ridge 
builds over the northeast. The trough that passes offshore will 
become a cutoff low over the western Atlantic as it gets trapped 
beneath the upper ridge. The upper ridge will then slowly push east 
through Thursday as the next amplifying upper trough quickly 
approaches. At the surface, high pressure will be in control Tuesday 
and Wednesday. The frontal system associated with the aforementioned 
next upper trough will quickly move across the region Thursday into 
Thursday night. Have held onto a 50 percent chance for showers late 
Thursday/Thursday night as there are still timing and strength 
differences with the system. The NBM probabilities for observing 
greater than 1 inch in a 12 or 24 period have fallen and are now 
generally less than 5 percent, which seems reasonable given the 
progressive nature of the modeled system. 

The front should be offshore to end the week. The associated upper 
trough may become a cutoff low near or just off the New England 
coast late Friday into the first half of the weekend as high 
pressure starts building in from the west. This could create a tight 
pressure gradient and lead to a windy Friday. NBM deterministic 
temperatures have trended cooler for Friday with at least modest 
cold advection and W-NW flow. Depending on how quick the offshore 
upper low departs will determine if the surface high can settle over 
the region next Saturday. Temperatures should trend closer to 
seasonal normals for next Saturday as the air mass starts to 
moderate.

&&

.AVIATION /18Z SUNDAY THROUGH FRIDAY/...
Low pressure and a cold front approach from the west into this
evening with the cold front moving into the terminals late
tonight into Monday morning as a wave of low pressure develops
on the front. The frontal wave and cold front move east early
Monday afternoon.

Conditions vary across the region with IFR along the immediate
south shore coast, and MVFR most other locations, and even local
VFR inland. Conditions become widespread IFR by late afternoon,
and remain IFR/LIFR through tonight with showers developing this
evening, with a period of moderate to heavy rainfall. There is
also a chance of thunder from about 02Z to 07Z at the NYC metro
terminals, however, chances and confidence are low, and have 
not included in the forecast. Showers gradually come to an end 
Monday morning into the afternoon with VFR late Monday 
afternoon.

Southerly winds, with gusts 25 to 30 kt, continue through this
evening, with a few peak gusts to around 35 kt possible along 
the coast this afternoon. As the cold front and frontal wave 
move into the region, winds and gusts will diminish, and may for
a time evening become light and variable. Timing of the 
diminishing winds is uncertain. As the front passes east, winds 
sift to the west and then NW/N, becoming gusty late Monday.

LLWS continues with S winds at 2kft 50-60 kt into late tonight,
and ends from west to east 05Z to 13Z.

 ...NY Metro (KEWR/KLGA/KJFK/KTEB) TAF Uncertainty...

Unscheduled AMD likely through the TAF period to address 
changes in flight categories and timing of rain, and wind
shifts.


.OUTLOOK FOR 18Z MONDAY THROUGH FRIDAY...

Monday afternoon: Generally MVFR with showers ending west to 
east, then becoming VFR, except at KGON where IFR and showers 
continue into late afternoon, ending early evening. NW/N winds
G15-20 kt late afternoon/early evening.

Tuesday and Wednesday: VFR.

Wednesday night and Thursday morning: IFR/LIFR cigs possible 
especially along the coast. 

Thursday afternoon and night: Chance of showers with MVFR cond
possible. S winds 10-15 kt with G20-25 kt, winds shifting to W
during the evening.

Friday: VFR at the NYC terminals and west, MVFR/IFR east with
showers ending late in the day, then becoming VFR. NW wind 15-20
kt G20-30 kt. 

Detailed information, including hourly TAF wind component
forecasts, can be found at: https:/www.weather.gov/zny/n90

&&

.MARINE...
Satellite data and coastal webcams continue to indicate 
visibilities are likely at or under 1 nm across much of the 
coastal waters and maintained a Dense Fog Advisory until 14Z 
Sun on all waters. Gradual improvement expected thereafter into 
late morning.

Otherwise, increasing southerly flow ahead of an approaching 
cold front will develop 25 kt to 30 kt gusts on all waters by 
late this morning, then persisting thru this evening. Small
Craft Advisory was issued for all waters. Gale force gusts are 
possible, though frequency is likely more occasional. Ocean seas
build as high 10 to 12 ft into this evening. As the cold front 
moves through early Monday and pushes east of local waters, 
winds and gusts will diminish and drop to less than SCA levels. 
Ocean seas remain elevated at or above 5 ft Monday night through
Thursday mainly due to lingering SE swells. 

Winds on all waters should be below SCA levels Monday night 
through Wednesday. The next chance for SCA winds will be 
Thursday into Thursday night as a cold front moves across the 
waters.

&&

.HYDROLOGY...
A frontal system is expected to produce a widespread 1-2 inches
of rain later today through Monday evening. Localized higher 
amounts are possible, especially across eastern Long Island and
southeastern Connecticut. 

Heavy downpours with this system could lead to nuisance 
flooding in urban and poor drainage areas, particularly late 
this evening and overnight into Monday morning. While localized 
flash flooding cannot be ruled out, the overall risk is low.

No hydrologic impacts are expected Monday night through the end of 
next week.

&&

.OKX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CT...None.
NY...None.
NJ...None.
MARINE...Small Craft Advisory until 6 AM EDT Monday for ANZ331-332-335-
     338-340-345-350-353-355.

&&

$$

SYNOPSIS...DR
NEAR TERM...BR/DR
SHORT TERM...DR
LONG TERM...DS
AVIATION...MET
MARINE...BR/DR
HYDROLOGY...DR
