736 
FXUS61 KOKX 191744
AFDOKX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service New York NY
144 PM EDT Mon May 19 2025

.SYNOPSIS...
High pressure builds into the area tonight and remains in place 
through Tuesday. Tuesday night, the high starts to slide east. 
Deepening low pressure passes south of the area Wednesday into 
Thursday. The low then moves northeast and into the Canadian 
Maritimes Thursday night through Saturday. Weak high pressure 
then builds in Saturday night through Monday.

&&

.NEAR TERM /THROUGH TONIGHT/...
Winds remain gusty for the remainder of the afternoon/evening as a 
surface trough moves across the area. High pressure builds into the 
region this evening, and remains nearby overnight. Expect clear 
skies this evening and overnight. Any gusty winds will continue to 
diminish this evening. Winds should remain just high enough to limit 
the effects of radiational cooling across much of the forecast area. 
The only exception may be well north and west of NYC where winds 
become light and variable late.

Temperatures are expected to range from the lower 40s to the lower 
50s. 


&&

.SHORT TERM /TUESDAY THROUGH TUESDAY NIGHT/...
Winds continue to diminish Tuesday with weak high pressure over the 
area. Expect any northerly winds to become light and variable 
by late morning or early afternoon. It should be a mostly sunny 
day, however a weak shortwave that passes northeast of the area 
may bring some increased cloudiness to the eastern portions of 
the CWA. 

The weak high over the area slides east late Tuesday into Tuesday 
night. This will allow a weather system over the middle portion of 
the country to approach the area. Expect an increase in cloud cover 
Tuesday night. It should remain dry Tuesday night, however some 
light rain will be possible towards daybreak across the western edge 
of the area. 

High temperatures on Tuesday will be in the middle and upper 60s, to 
lower 70s. Tuesday night lows fall into the upper 40s and lower to 
middle 50s. 

&&

.LONG TERM /WEDNESDAY THROUGH SUNDAY/...
Global models in general agreement regarding the h5 pattern through 
the long term. A ridge over us on Wednesday flattens as a closed low 
slowly moves from the northern Great Lakes Region eastward through 
the Northeast through this weekend, then into the Canadian Maritimes 
on Monday. This will bring us an extended period of rain threat with 
the greatest chances occurring Wednesday afternoon through Thursday 
evening.

At the surface, a double-barreled low moves closer to us from the 
south and west on Wednesday. The circulation center emerging off the 
Mid-Atlantic Coast during Wednesday night strengthens and eventually 
passes not too far offshore during Thursday. Rain slowly overspreads 
the forecast area from SW to NE across the area through the day 
Wednesday. Rainfall then looks to be more on the moderate side in 
terms of intensity Weds night into Thurs morning as a low level jet 
enhances lift, coinciding with time that the deepest moisture is 
shifting through as indicated by forecast PWATs. See the hydrology 
section below for potential impacts with this system. Rain chances 
then drop off during Thursday night as the low continues on its NE 
path towards Nova Scotia. A cyclonic flow aloft with occasional 
shortwaves passing through keeps the threat of a shower on Friday, 
which afterwards may be more diurnally-driven for both days this 
weekend as well as on Monday.

NBM looked reasonable for temperatures through the long term. Cooler 
than normal Weds-Friday, then warming to near normal this weekend.


&&

.AVIATION /18Z MONDAY THROUGH SATURDAY/...
Low pres remains over the maritimes tngt. A weak high pres ridge 
extends swd into the area late Tue.

VFR thru the TAF period.

NW winds 20-30kt thru this eve, then speeds decrease aft 4-6Z, and 
veer gradually thru 12Z. Winds mainly aob 12kt on Tue, with N 
direction veering to the E/SE aft 18Z. There is some uncertainty wrt 
wind direction aft 18Z Tue, as some areas could go full sea breeze 
direction due to the weakening flow.

 ...NY Metro (KEWR/KLGA/KJFK/KTEB) TAF Uncertainty...

No unscheduled amendments thru 21Z expected. Sea breeze flow could 
develop aft 18Z Tue.

.OUTLOOK FOR 18Z TUESDAY THROUGH SATURDAY...

Rest of Tuesday: VFR with lessening winds in the aftn. MVFR possible 
aft 00Z Wed. 

Wednesday: MVFR or lower with rain by late in the day. E wind gusts 
up to 30kt.

Thursday: MVFR or lower with rain, especially in the mrng. E winds 
backing to the N thru the day with gusts up to 30kt.

Friday: MVFR or lower with winds becoming light W.

Saturday: MVFR possible with NW flow.

Detailed information, including hourly TAF wind component forecasts, 
can be found at: https:/www.weather.gov/zny/n90

&&

.MARINE...
The Small Craft Advisory remains in effect until midnight 
tonight for all waters as 25 kt gusts may linger. Expect wind gusts 
25 to 30 kt gusts. Winds are expected to diminish below 25kt by 
midnight, then we are expecting sub-SCA conditions through through 
at least Tuesday night.

SCA conditions on most, if not all waters Wednesday through Thursday 
as low pressure passes offshore with an east to northeast flow 
increasing to 15-25kt with around 30kt gusts. Could be some gale 
force gusts on the ocean as well during late Weds night into Thurs 
morning, but not enough confidence at this time for a Gale Watch for 
a late 4th into 5th period event. Seas probably remain elevated with 
a residual swell for a period thereafter, so advisory conditions 
probably continue into Friday on the ocean. Sub-advisory conditions 
then follow for Saturday.

&&

.HYDROLOGY...
Rainfall from Wednesday through Thursday night is anticipated to be 
in the range of mostly a half inch to 1.5 inches. The rainfall will 
probably be at its heaviest during Wednesday night into Thursday 
morning. Impacts will most likely be limited to minor urban/poor 
drainage flooding and perhaps small stream flooding as well. The 
flash flood threat remains low when considering current flash-flood 
guidance values plus a lack of convection to enhance rainfall in 
only a modest PWAT airmass. NBM could be underestimating rainfall 
amounts as it did with last week's system, so can't completely rule 
out isolated flash flooding. WPC continues with a marginal risk of 
flash flooding during this period. 

&&

.TIDES/COASTAL FLOODING...
A strengthening and persistent E/NE flow Wednesday through Thursday 
could bring widespread minor coastal flooding to the area. The two 
high tide cycles of concern as of now are the Wednesday 
night/Thursday morning cycle and the Thursday afternoon cycle. There 
is a bit higher confidence with the first cycle, as winds for the 
second cycle may be northerly enough to give some coastal areas 
a more offshore flow.

&&

.OKX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CT...None.
NY...None.
NJ...None.
MARINE...Small Craft Advisory until midnight EDT tonight for ANZ331-332-
     335-338-340-345-350-353-355.

&&

$$

SYNOPSIS...BC/JC
NEAR TERM...BC
SHORT TERM...BC
LONG TERM...JC
AVIATION...JMC
MARINE...BC/JC
HYDROLOGY...JC
TIDES/COASTAL FLOODING...
