027 
FXUS61 KOKX 141732
AFDOKX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service New York NY
1232 PM EST Fri Feb 14 2025

.SYNOPSIS...
A large dome of high pressure builds across today and tonight, 
before pushing offshore Saturday. Low pressure approaches from the 
Ohio and Tennessee Valleys and impacts the region late Saturday into 
Sunday. High pressure then slowly builds back through Wednesday.
Low pressure may impact the area on Thursday.

&&

.NEAR TERM /THROUGH TONIGHT/...
The fcst is on track. Brisk and gusty at times for today with a
good deal of sunshine. The winds will gust to around 30 mph at 
times through the early afternoon, with the winds diminishing 
for late in the afternoon and early evening. Despite a good deal
of sunshine temperatures should average a good 5 to 7 degrees 
below normal with mostly lower and middle 30s, but feeling a 
good 10 to 15 degrees colder at times factoring in the WNW wind.

By early this evening high clouds start to arrive. Increasing high 
and mid level clouds take place through the night, especially after 
midnight in terms of increasing mid level clouds. With the high 
settling over the area look for the winds to go calm. A tricky 
temperature forecast as enough high clouds could affect minimum 
temperatures some. Where the higher level cloud cover is less dense 
more radiational cooling can take place and would be rather 
impressive with calm winds. For now will take a middle of the road 
approach with low temperatures and not attempt to pinpoint where any 
greater radiational effects take place. Lows will be mainly in the 
lower 20s for the coast, and some teens across the rural and 
interior sections.  With more like middle 20s in the NYC and NE NJ 
metropolitan area.

&&

.SHORT TERM /SATURDAY THROUGH SUNDAY/...
WINTER WEATHER ADVISORY IN EFFECT BEGINNING ON NOON SATURDAY 
THROUGH EARLY SUNDAY MORNING FOR INTERIOR PORTIONS OF THE AREA 
FOR SNOW FOLLOWED BY A POTENTIAL PERIOD OF FREEZING RAIN.

Overcast skies will lower throughout the morning from SW to NE. With 
the profile well below freezing to start look for snow to break out 
for western areas during the early afternoon, and a few hours later 
for eastern and northeastern sections. With the soundings plenty 
cold enough for snow at the start look for the snow to begin to 
accumulate towards very late in the afternoon and early evening 
hours. During the afternoon the onshore SE flow begins to increase. 
This will begin to warm up the boundary layer by early evening for 
coastal areas but not before some snow accumulation can take place. 
For coastal areas based on higher res sounding analysis the warming 
in the boundary layer looks to outpace the warming above the 
boundary layer (5 to 9 kft layer). The further inland one goes the 
the boundary layer flow will be weaker and thus the mid level 
warming is likely to outplace any boundary layer warming. Thus when 
the transition occurs from snow look for inland locations to have a 
possible brief period of sleet before going to freezing rain. At the 
coast the transition will be quicker and will be mainly from snow 
right to rain. The timing of the transition at this time looks to be 
mainly for the mid and possibly early evening for coastal sections, 
and for the late evening and overnight further inland. With the 
upper level trough associated with the storm system undergoing a 
shortening wavelength, this should lead to more ridging further 
upstream along the coast and just offshore. This increased mid and 
upper level ridging should help the warmer air in the mid 
levels surge northward late Saturday night into Sunday morning.
For the winter weather advisory expect 2 to 4 inches, with 
locally up to 5 inches across a few of the farthest northern
locations. Also these same locations are likely to experience a
glaze of ice further south, to close to a quarter of an inch of
ice across northwestern portions of Orange County. Snowfall
amounts along and closer to the coast outside of the advisories
will be mainly 1 to 2 inches before the changeover to rain. 

By Sunday morning even inland locations should get above freezing 
primarily at the sfc with any precipitation in the form of plain 
rain. There remains questions as to whether the warm front at the 
surface gets through the area, with the front likely being occluded 
further inland. Perhaps coastal sections, especially further east 
can get into the warm sector and behind the warm front briefly. Thus 
temperatures are expected to remain in the 30s inland with warmer 
temperatures further southeast. Far southern and southeastern 
locations could get into the middle and upper 40s if the warm front 
completely gets through. Most of the modeling has showery rains 
developing ahead of the cold frontal boundary in the warm sector. 
This should pivot through the area after a short break in the precip 
earlier in the day. Then by during the afternoon the cold front 
should move through from west to east, with the front likely to 
clear eastern sections by early evening effectively ending all
precipitation. Total QPF from the event looks to be on the 
order of roughly 1.5 to 2 inches of liquid averaged across the 
region.

&&

.LONG TERM /SUNDAY NIGHT THROUGH THURSDAY/...
Gusty west winds for Sunday night through Monday night in the wake 
of a cold front passage and high pressure slowly building in from 
the west. Advisory-level gusts may be possible in some areas during 
Monday and something that will need to be monitored. 850mb temps 
drop to around -15C, but will be offset by strong downsloping 
westerly winds. Went a little above NBM guidance, but high 
temperatures on Monday will still be below normal. Still somewhat 
breezy for Tuesday as high pressure continues to build in, but winds 
will at least not be as strong this time. High temps about 10 
degrees below normal. 

The high pressure ridge finally reaches us on Wednesday, but gets 
eroded by the next system that is shaping up to impact the forecast 
area. It probably remains dry through the daytime, but then chances 
of snow begin to increase Wednesday night into Thursday. Several 
global models and their respective ensemble means are signaling a 
coastal storm emerging off the Mid-Atlantic Coast Weds night into 
Thursday morning, then passing nearby the 40N/70W benchmark in the 
Thursday to Thursday night time frame. Have PoPs capped at 50% with 
this being a day-7 forecast, but woudn't be surprised to see NBM 
PoPs trend upward given recent model trends. As it stands, precip 
type would be all snow.

&&

.AVIATION /18Z FRIDAY THROUGH WEDNESDAY/...
High pressure builds into the region through today and moves 
overhead tonight. Low pressure approaches the area on Saturday.

VFR through Saturday morning. Cigs and vsbys lower through
Saturday afternoon and evening.

NW-WNW winds mostly 15-20kt with gusts 25-30kt through much of
the afternoon. Winds and gusts diminish towards evening, with 
gusts ending around 00Z Saturday. Winds become light and 
variable late tonight through early Saturday morning. Winds then
become southeasterly under 10 kt through the end of the TAF 
period.

Snow is expected by Saturday afternoon. MVFR vsbys expected
around 20z, with vsbys as low as 3/4 of a mile possible in 
pockets of heavier snow. Cigs lower to MVFR around 20z as well,
with IFR cigs possible 22z.

 ...NY Metro (KEWR/KLGA/KJFK/KTEB) TAF Uncertainty...

Amendments possible for flight category changes to cigs and 
vsbys with snow moving in Saturday afternoon.

.OUTLOOK FOR 18Z SATURDAY THROUGH WEDNESDAY... 

Saturday Afternoon-Saturday Night: IFR in snow in the 
afternoon. The snow should transition to rain along the coast in
the evening, and inland overnight. A wintry mix may remain at 
KSWF for the entire overnight hours, including freezing rain.

Sunday: IFR or lower with rain. A chance of freezing rain at KSWF 
early in the morning. LLWS possible, especially east of the city 
terminals. S Gusts 20-25 kt.

Monday: VFR with W wind gusts 35-40 kt.

Tuesday: VFR with W wind gusts around 25 kt.

Wednesday: VFR.

Detailed information, including hourly TAF wind component forecasts, 
can be found at: https:/www.weather.gov/zny/n90

&&

.MARINE...
Gale conditions continue through the morning and into a portion of 
the afternoon for most of the waters. With high pressure approaching 
the waters look for conditions to subside towards evening. As 
conditions subside a brief period of small craft conditions is 
expected before sub advisory conditions prevail across all waters by 
mid to late evening. As the high moves over the waters later tonight 
look for the winds and seas to subside further with ocean seas down 
to around 1 ft for Saturday morning. The high pushes east and a SE 
wind increase Saturday afternoon into Saturday night with marginal 
small craft seas on the ocean waters by early Sunday with the 
likelihood of widespread small craft conditions increasing through 
the day Sunday on the ocean.

A good chance of gales for Sunday night through Monday night for all 
waters as high pressure builds in behind the departing storm and
cold front. SCA conds then prevail on Tuesday.

&&

.HYDROLOGY...
No hydrologic impacts are anticipated from this weekend's storm 
system despite the fact that 1.5 to 2 inches of liquid is expected 
across the area. Thereafter no hydrologic impacts are anticipated
through the remainder of the forecast period.

&&

.OKX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CT...Winter Weather Advisory from noon Saturday to 7 AM EST Sunday 
     for CTZ005>008.
     Winter Weather Advisory from noon Saturday to 1 AM EST Sunday 
     for CTZ009>012.
NY...Winter Weather Advisory from noon Saturday to 7 AM EST Sunday 
     for NYZ067-068.
     Winter Weather Advisory from noon Saturday to 1 AM EST Sunday 
     for NYZ069>071.
NJ...Winter Weather Advisory from noon Saturday to 7 AM EST Sunday 
     for NJZ002.
     Winter Weather Advisory from noon Saturday to 1 AM EST Sunday 
     for NJZ004-103>105.
MARINE...Gale Warning until 4 PM EST this afternoon for ANZ331-332-335-
     338-340-345-350-353-355.

&&

$$

SYNOPSIS...JC/JE
NEAR TERM...JE
SHORT TERM...JE
LONG TERM...JC
AVIATION...JT
MARINE...JC/JE
HYDROLOGY...JC/JE
