744 
FXUS61 KOKX 142322
AFDOKX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service New York NY
722 PM EDT Sat Jun 14 2025

.SYNOPSIS...
High pressure will build in from the northeast as a frontal wave
passes east tonight. The high will continue to influence the 
area into early next week as it works slowly out into the North 
Atlantic. A warm front begins to approach on Tuesday and passes 
through on Wednesday. A cold front then follows for Thursday 
night. High pressure then takes control for Friday and Saturday 
with only a weak cold front passing through Friday night.

&&

.NEAR TERM /THROUGH SUNDAY/...
The steady light rain has ended, but there could be some pockets
of light rain or sprinkles tonight. Will maintain a low chance 
of light rain and/or drizzle. High pressure centered near Nova 
Scotia will build into the area tonight behind the departing 
low. This will bring in some drier through the night. This 
should keep Father's Day dry, but with plenty of cloudy clover. 
Model time height cross sections show mid level dry air with 
deep moisture below 700 mb. There could be enough drying for 
some peaks of sun in the afternoon across eastern CT and eastern
LI.

Lows tonight will in the mid to upper 50s for much of the area,
but around 60 for the NYC metro. Highs Sunday will be in the 60s
to around 70. Stayed with the warmer NBM as locations on Saturday
overachieved for those locations where the rain stopped. Airmass
should be very similar, minus the rain.

&&

.SHORT TERM /SUNDAY NIGHT THROUGH MONDAY/...
Weak high pressure will remain in control even as the center
of the high gradually works east out into the North Atlantic. 
There will remain plenty of low-level moisture with mostly 
cloudy conditions lingering for all but eastern LI and SE CT, 
where there could be breaks in the cloud cover. A weak easterly 
flow will continue as well with high pressure across the area 
and a stalled frontal boundary to the south over the Mid 
Atlantic states.

Lows Sunday night will change little in the mid to upper 50s,
except around 60 for the NYC metro. Highs Monday will begin 
there gradual uptick heading into the upcoming week, around 70 
for most locations.

&&

.LONG TERM /MONDAY NIGHT THROUGH SATURDAY/...
Weak riding aloft Monday night into Tuesday as the h5 flow gets 
amplified by a shortwave shifting in to the Ohio Valley. Most of the 
time is expected to be dry as the mean ridging aloft should help 
offset any subtle PVA, but left in a slight chance of an afternoon 
shower across the western half of the forecast area as per NBM. The 
warm front then moves through during the day Wednesday with rain 
chances for both Tuesday night due to lift ahead of the front, and 
for Wednesday with frontal passage itself, followed by increasing 
instability later in the day.

Global models still disagree regarding when of an amplifying h5 
trough axis shifts through within the Thursday night-Friday time 
frame. GFS has slowed down noticeably in this regard over the past 
24 hours, with ECMWF and Canadian more consistently showing the axis 
shifting through during Friday morning. Not surprisingly, LREF 
ensemble clusters therefore lean toward the EPS/CMCE camp over GEFS. 
Associated cold front is therefore still slated for a Thursday night 
passage, but before then, a pre-frontal trough may act as a focus 
for convective initiation in an increasingly unstable air mass. As 
such, NBM has expanded likely PoPs (60-70%) into most of the Lower 
Hudson Valley and adjacent spots for Thursday afternoon/early 
evening. Potential shear and CAPE would lead to the chance of at 
least strong thunderstorms. Too early in the game to have much 
confidence in the severe wx potential, but something to watch. 
Leaned more toward the 25th percentile NBM for highs on Thursday for 
most spots, which is still warmer than the deterministic numbers. h8 
temps progged at 18-19C without too much convective debris should 
allow for low-mid 90s in the typically warmest spots. This coupled 
with dewpoints around 70 could have some heat impacts.

High pressure would then be the dominant feature for Friday and 
Saturday with only perhaps a weak cold front or trough moving 
through during Friday night. Cold pool aloft on Friday could help 
trigger an isolated afternoon shower or thunderstorm. High 
temperatures both days in the 80s and about 3-5 degrees above
normal.

&&

.AVIATION /00Z SUNDAY THROUGH THURSDAY/...
A stationary front will remain to the south of the terminals
through Sunday. High pressure builds towards the terminals 
from the northeast through Sunday.

Mainly MVFR through the TAF period. A few pockets of IFR are
possible tonight, mainly near the coast. The steady light rain
has ended, but there could be some light rain or sprinkles at
times tonight, especially near the coast. Conditions will likely
improve to VFR Sunday afternoon, possibly mid to late morning, 
across southern Connecticut and portions of the Lower Hudson 
Valley. Cannot completely rule out improvement to VFR at NYC and
Long Island terminals Sunday afternoon. 

NE winds around 10 kt or less through the TAF period. 

    NY Metro (KEWR/KLGA/KJFK/KTEB) TAF Uncertainty...

Low chance of IFR ceilings tonight.

Improvement to VFR possible Sunday afternoon. 

.OUTLOOK FOR 00Z MONDAY THROUGH THURSDAY... 

Sunday Night - Monday: MVFR possible.

Tuesday: Mainly VFR. slight chance of showers late day into the
night, with a chance of MVFR to IFR.

Wednesday - Thursday: Mostly VFR. A chance of showers and 
thunderstorms, mainly in the afternoon and evening.

Detailed information, including hourly TAF wind component forecasts, 
can be found at: https:/www.weather.gov/zny/n90

&&

.MARINE...
SCA remains up for the ocean waters tonight with NE flow at 15
to 20 kt and gusts up to 25 kt. Seas will build to around 5 ft.
The flow relaxes some the second half of the night. It is
possible that 5 ft seas linger a bit longer into Sunday morning.
Confidence remains low. Otherwise, sub SCA conditions expected 
through Monday.

Winds and seas remain below SCA levels across all waters Monday 
night through at least Thursday morning. SW winds pick up in the 
afternoon ahead of a cold front, with gusts possibly up to 25 kt on 
the ocean - lasting into the evening. Ocean seas could reach 5 ft 
Thursday night into Friday.

&&

.HYDROLOGY...
No hydrologic impacts expected through the end of the week.

Next chance for impacts would be Thursday into Thursday night with 
scattered thunderstorms. The airmass is moist, but the anticipated 
speed of the cells would mitigate potential rain amounts. With that 
said, there's still the potential of at least minor urban/poor 
drainage flooding.

&&

.TIDES/COASTAL FLOODING...
There is a moderate rip current risk at ocean beaches on Sunday
with an E-SE wave component around 4 ft at 6s. The rip current
risk is low on Monday and the E-SE wave component subsides to
around 3 ft at 7s. 

&&

.OKX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CT...None.
NY...None.
NJ...None.
MARINE...Small Craft Advisory until 6 AM EDT Sunday for ANZ350-353-355.

&&

$$

SYNOPSIS...JC/DW
NEAR TERM...DS/DW
SHORT TERM...DW
LONG TERM...JC
AVIATION...DS
MARINE...JC/DW
HYDROLOGY...JC/DW
TIDES/COASTAL FLOODING...
