874 
FXUS61 KOKX 160250
AFDOKX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service New York NY
950 PM EST Wed Jan 15 2025

.SYNOPSIS...
High pressure over the region gradually weakens tonight. The 
high gives way to a weakening frontal system that approaches 
from the west Thursday and passes across the area Thursday 
night. High pressure returns Friday. A weak frontal system 
passes on Saturday, followed by another system late Sunday. An 
arctic high then builds towards the region during the beginning 
of next week.

&&

.NEAR TERM /UNTIL 6 AM THURSDAY MORNING/...
Lowered min Ts tonight a few degrees in the LoHud Valley where 
winds have lightened enough to allow KMGJ to already drop into 
the mid teens. Otherwise, forecast on track and previous 
discussion follows.

High pressure remains over the region tonight with the strong 
and gusty northwest flow diminishing. Any flurries that may be 
on- going across portions of the lower Hudson Valley and into 
southwestern Connecticut will be ending as the winds diminish 
and weak upper energy slides south and east. Have maintained a 
mostly clear to clear sky condition through tonight with the dry
airmass in place, and as any strato cu dissipate early this 
evening. The NBM deterministic and MAV guidance were used for 
low temperatures and dew points.

&&

.SHORT TERM /6 AM THURSDAY MORNING THROUGH THURSDAY NIGHT/...
Thursday begins with tranquil conditions as in place high 
pressure begins to slide offshore as the next shortwave and 
upper trough digs to the west. The forecast remains mainly on 
track as a weak surface low develops near the Delmarva by late 
in the day with little associated moisture. While the NBM 
remains dry with the low, CAMs do develop snow showers by late 
in the day and into Thursday night as the low rather quickly 
moves south of Long Island. With light precipitation possible 
have maintained low chance and slight chance probabilities late 
Thursday into late Thursday night. Despite winds becoming west 
to southwest warm advection is negligible, and with the cold 
airmass in place and increasing cloud cover Thursday's highs 
will be similar to Wednesday's and once again blended the NBM 
deterministic and MAV guidance. With the possibility of a light 
dusting of snow have added QPF. late Thursday and Thursday 
night.

&&

.LONG TERM /FRIDAY THROUGH WEDNESDAY/...
Fair wx is expected on Fri as an h5 ridge transitions into the 
region. This ridge will then slide offshore as a deep upr trof digs 
into the cntrl CONUS. Moisture advection and lowering heights on Sat 
will produce chcs for pcpn late Sat and Sat ngt. Rain attm for much 
of the area with a mix interior with the arctic air yet to build in. 
There could be some mixing or a changeover before the pcpn ends as 
the cold air advects in. Although pcpn is expected to be mainly lgt 
and therefore significant accums are not expected, there could be 
some refreezing issues on roads etc Sat ngt. Another weak low 
develops invof the polar front late Sun and Sun ngt. This would 
produce some snow across the area, with a general 1-3 or 2-4 type 
event. This is dependent on the position/timing of the sys, and the 
blended NBM pops yield roughly 30-50 percent at this stage. This 
seems reasonable at this time scale so did not stray from the NBM. 
Arctic air then builds in for the beginning of next week. Dry wx 
unless a stray flurry from the lakes reaches the cwa. Highs in many 
places on Tue likely to stay in the teens.

&&

.AVIATION /03Z THURSDAY THROUGH MONDAY/...
High pressure gradually builds in tonight and moves offshore 
Thursday. A frontal system approaches from the west late in the 
TAF period.

VFR conditions expected through Thursday afternoon. 

Gusts diminish by late this evening as flow becomes more westerly
into Thursday morning, then SW into the afternoon. Gusts toward
20 kt may return at some terminals Thursday afternoon, though 
also may be more occasional. Winds veer westerly again Thursday
night, then NW into early Friday morning.

A few snow showers are possible Thursday evening, and have added
a PROB30 to highlight this potential, as well as MVFR cigs and
vsbys. Little to no accumulation expected. Brief IFR conds 
can't be ruled out, generally between 22Z Thu and 3Z Fri or so.

 ...NY Metro (KEWR/KLGA/KJFK/KTEB) TAF Uncertainty... 

Gusts Thursday afternoon may be more occasional.

Snow shower timing Thursday evening may be off by an hour or 
two. Brief IFR conds possible.

.OUTLOOK FOR 18Z THURSDAY THROUGH MONDAY...

Thursday: Mainly VFR. Occasional SW wind gusts 15-20 kt possible 
afternoon. Light snow showers possible, mainly early evening 
with MVFR or lower possible.

Friday: Mainly VFR.

Saturday: MVFR or lower at times with rain likely, possible snow at 
night. SW wind gusts 15-20 kt during the day.

Sunday: Chance for MVFR or lower at times with increasing
chances of snow, with rain/snow mix for coastal terminals day
into early evening.

Monday: Mainly VFR. Possible snow early with MVFR or lower possible. 
NW wind gusts near 20 kt.

Detailed information, including hourly TAF wind component forecasts, 
can be found at: https:/www.weather.gov/zny/n90

&&

.MARINE...
Winds and seas will gradually diminish tngt. Once conditions 
improve on the non ocean waters this evening sub advisory 
conditions continue into Thursday night as high pressure weakens
with a weak frontal system passing through the waters Thursday 
night. For the ocean waters conditions fall below advisory soon 
after midnight tonight, and then remain below through Thursday 
night.

Winds and seas are expected to remain blw sca lvls on Fri, then
cond on the ocean may ramp up to sca lvls on Sat with a sys 
moving thru. As low pres strengthens over the ocean, seas build 
to sca lvls on the ocean Sun. All areas may hit sca or gale in 
strong NW flow on Mon as arctic air builds in.

&&

.HYDROLOGY...
No hydrologic impacts are expected into early next week.

&&

.OKX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CT...None.
NY...None.
NJ...None.
MARINE...Small Craft Advisory until 1 AM EST Thursday for ANZ332-340-
     350-353-355.

&&

$$

SYNOPSIS...JMC/MET
NEAR TERM...JMC/DR/MET
SHORT TERM...MET
LONG TERM...JMC
AVIATION...DR
MARINE...JMC/MET
HYDROLOGY...JMC/MET
