170 
FXUS61 KOKX 070923
AFDOKX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service New York NY
423 AM EST Fri Feb 7 2025

.SYNOPSIS...
High pressure builds into the area today and slides overhead on
Saturday. A low pressure system impacts the area Saturday night
and exits the area on Sunday. High pressure will be in control
Sunday night into Monday. A series of low pressures may impact 
the area Tuesday through the end of the week.

&&

.NEAR TERM /THROUGH TONIGHT/...
Patchy fog remains possible this morning, mainly along the coast
but should mix out with improving conditions as a cold front
ushers in a drier airmass and wind speeds pick up this morning.
High pressure builds in from the west through the day today. A
tight pressure gradient over the area will provide for a brisk
NW flow at around 15-20 mph with gusts 30-35 mph. Some gusts may
approach 40 mph during the early afternoon as CAA should
efficiently mix the lower atmosphere. High temperatures today
will be in the middle 30s inland to near 40 along the coast.

Gusts should diminish fairly quickly this evening with a lack 
of surface heating as well as high pressure becoming more 
centered over the area. Lows will be in the teens inland to the
middle 20s for the coast.

&&

.SHORT TERM /SATURDAY THROUGH SUNDAY/...
High pressure slides overhead on Saturday allowing for
temperatures to continue to trend colder. High temperatures
during the day will be in the low to middle 30s.

A surface low pressure system develops over the Ohio Valley
below the right exit region of a 150kt jet streak at 250mb. This
low pressure will progress east as it intensifies. Over the last
several days, this system has become less amplified and more
progressive, which ultimately led to a colder and snowier
solution for much of the area.

The low pressure is expected to slide into the Mid-Atlantic and
move offshore Saturday night before quickly exiting the area
Sunday morning. Despite its progressive nature in a fairly 
zonal flow, a 12 hour period of widespread moderate to locally 
heavy precipitation is expected, mainly in the form of snow.

Light snow will begin to overspread the area from west to east
late Saturday afternoon and into the early evening. As the low
approaches the area and slides to the south, an area of 
moderate to locally heavy snow is expected to develop north of
the low center. Any localized mesoscale bands within the shield
of precipitation may allow for snowfall rates upwards of 1-2"
per hour in the first half of the overnight period. As the low
center slides south of the area into the middle of the night, a
warm nose may try to approach the southern coastal areas which
may result in a mix of sleet with the snow. If this occurs,
snowfall totals will be much less with a significantly decreased
SLR. There is some indication that some mid-level dry air may
decrease ice nuclei aloft which may result in a primarily sleet
or even a mix with freezing rain assuming surface temperatures
along the coast remain at or below freezing. Given the
uncertainty with the exact proximity of the low center, surface
temperatures along the south shore of Long Island may nudge just
above freezing which may allow for the mix in with some plain
rain, though a transition to entirely plain rain is not expected
at this time. Precipitation will quickly taper off from west to
east Sunday morning. 

Overall, 6-8 inches of snow is anticipated for the northern 
half of the CWA, namely the Lower Hudson Valley and southern 
Connecticut. A widespread 3-5 inches of snow is expected for the
southern half of the CWA from NE NJ, the NYC metro, and 
eastward into Long Island, though the uncertainty in snowfall 
totals is largest in this area. More mixing with sleet or more 
dry air aloft may allow for totals to be on the lower end. If 
dynamics are strong enough to keep the low level warm nose 
shunted to the south and snowfall rates high enough, totals may 
be on the higher end of the forecast. It's also entirely 
possible that portions of Long Island approach 6 inches of snow.
A glaze of ice is also possible for the southern half of the 
CWA if any freezing rain mixes in during the late night.

Winter Storm Watches remain in effect for the entire area.

The low pressure departs on Sunday with high pressure building
in behind it with gradually clearing skies. High temperatures 
on Sunday will be in the middle to upper 30s.

&&

.LONG TERM /SUNDAY NIGHT THROUGH THURSDAY/...
Active period of weather will continues next with week including an 
increasing probabilities for snow late Tuesday into early Wednesday.

Key Points:

* Potential for accumulating snow late Tuesday night into early 
  Wednesday.

* Uncertainty is quite high for Wednesday through Thursday as 
  additional low pressures may impact the area. 

* Temperatures will be below normal for much of the week.

The fast and nearly zonal flow aloft will continue for much of next 
week. A brief lull in the active weather will occur Sunday night 
into Monday as high pressure builds over the northeast. The high 
likely lingers into Tuesday, but weakens through the day. The global 
deterministic and ensemble models have been consistently signaling 
the the baroclinic/thermal gradient to set up south of the area with 
multiple pieces of energy and associated low pressures riding along 
it through middle of the week. 

The first in the series of low looks to move out of the southeast 
and then push off the southern Middle Atlantic Tuesday night into 
early Wednesday. The modeling has been overall very consistent with 
lift and moisture increasing to the north of the low during this 
time period. It looks like the low stays far enough south that any 
precip would be in the form of snow. There is a fair amount of 
spread with the exact track of the low as well as if the low will be 
consolidated or be a series of weaker lows. The consolidated 
solutions generally are further north and yield the greatest 
potential accumulating snow across the entire area whereas the 
further south and weaker lows may lead to lower accumulations. There 
is still time for adjustments in the track and evolution as the 
system is about 4 days out, but the potential is there for another 
accumulating snowfall event. 

Precip probabilities should decrease on Wednesday before another low 
pressure approaches Wednesday night into Thursday. The latest 
guidance indicates the flow amplifies enough for the system to pass 
nearby or even over the northeast. This would yield a warmer 
solution. However, the modeling has been struggling with the 
placement of the thermal gradient as previous cycles showed more 
suppressed solutions. The general theme is that active weather is 
likely to continue into the end of the week, but details on 
precipitation types and amounts are unclear at this time. 

&&

.AVIATION /08Z FRIDAY THROUGH TUESDAY/...
A cold front will move across early this morning. Building high 
pressure will follow thereafter. 

IFR/LIFR conditions will improve to VFR as the cold front moves 
across the terminals. 

SW winds shift to the W and then NW this morning. Wind speeds will 
increase, becoming 15-20 kt with gusts 25-30 kt. The gusts will 
diminish after 22-23z, with NW winds settling to around 10 kt late 
tonight.

 ...NY Metro (KEWR/KLGA/KJFK/KTEB) TAF Uncertainty... 

Timing of VFR may be off by an hour.

A few gusts around 35 kt possible 15Z-22Z.

.OUTLOOK FOR 06Z SATURDAY THROUGH TUESDAY... 

Late Tonight-Saturday: VFR. 

Saturday night: Snow developing, with LIFR/IFR at times Precip 
transitions to a wintry mix for the NYC metros/KISP after midnight. 
Accumulations around 5-7 inches likely at KSWF/KHPN/KBDR/KGON. 
Accumulations of 3-5 inches likely at the NYC metros/KISP. 

Sunday: Snow ending early with improvements to VFR. NW winds G15-
20kt. 

Monday: Mainly VFR.

Tuesday: Chance of snow in the afternoon, becoming likely at night. 
IFR cond likely, LIFR possible.

Detailed information, including hourly TAF wind component forecasts, 
can be found at: https:/www.weather.gov/zny/n90

&&

.MARINE...
High pressure building into the area will allow for widespread
gusts to 30 kt over all the waters today allowing for SCA
conditions. A few gale force gusts are possible as well. Sub-SCA
conditions are then expected to overtake all the waters tonight
and persist through at least Sunday morning. Seas then look to
increase on the ocean waters Sunday afternoon allowing for
possible SCA conditions.

Marginal SCA conditions are possible on the ocean waters Sunday 
night as high pressure builds over the waters. The pressure gradient 
then weakens into Tuesday leading to conditions below SCA
levels.

&&

.HYDROLOGY...
There are no hydrologic concerns through the forecast period.

&&

.OKX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CT...Winter Storm Watch from Saturday evening through Sunday 
     morning for CTZ005>012.
NY...Winter Storm Watch from Saturday evening through Sunday 
     morning for NYZ067>075-078>081-176>179.
NJ...Winter Storm Watch from Saturday evening through Sunday 
     morning for NJZ002-004-006-103>108.
MARINE...Small Craft Advisory until 1 AM EST Saturday for ANZ331-332-
     335-338-340-345.
     Small Craft Advisory until 1 AM EST Saturday for ANZ350-353-
     355.

&&

$$

SYNOPSIS...DS/MW
NEAR TERM...MW
SHORT TERM...MW
LONG TERM...DS
AVIATION...DS
MARINE...DS/MW
HYDROLOGY...DS/MW
