333 
FXUS61 KOKX 162231
AFDOKX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service New York NY
631 PM EDT Sun Mar 16 2025

.SYNOPSIS...
A strong cold front slowly moves across the area tonight into
Monday, pushing offshore Monday evening. High pressure takes 
over thereafter and remains into Wednesday. A fast moving 
frontal system moves across the area Thursday into Thursday 
night. High pressure begins to build back into the area on 
Friday and should remain in control next weekend.

&&

.NEAR TERM /THROUGH MONDAY/...
A line of convection across eastern PA and upstate NY along a
prefrontal trough will continue to weaken as it pushes east
towards the area this evening. Strong onshore flow will push
stable maritime air inland as the this convection pushes east.
The latest SPC mesoanalysis indicated no surface instability
over the area, which also gives confidence the line will 
continue to weaken as it approaches.

The prefrontal trough and associated cold front will move into
the region tonight. There will still be showers and embedded
elevated thunder with the aforementioned weakening convective 
line, but it appears a resurgence of showers will occur from 
southwest to northeast across the area with strengthening low 
level jet in combination with increasing upper divergence from a
an approaching jet streak to our northwest. This will likely 
induce a weak wave of the frontal boundary, which will increase 
convergence and lift overnight. 

While shower activity will initially be limited early this 
evening, moderate to locally heavy showers are expected to 
increase in coverage late this evening into the overnight hours.
PWATs range anywhere from 1.3-1.6 inches supporting potential 
for some locally heavy downpours. Still think a few rumbles of 
thunder are possible, but elevated instability is minimal 
overnight. HRRR has indicated a marginal MUCAPE even across 
eastern Long Island overnight, so will mention slight chance of 
thunder there as well. The heaviest rain may shift east of the 
NYC metro by early Monday morning with a steadier stratiform 
rain from the city on NW.

Peak rainfall rates from 0.25 to 0.50 inches per hour seem most
likely although a few downpours could briefly be a bit
higher up to 1 inch per hour. The main concern tonight into
early Monday will be from minor urban and poor drainage
flooding. Eastern Long Island and southeast Connecticut stand
the best shot at seeing a longer duration of heavier downpours,
so cannot completely rule out a localized instance of flash
flooding here. Rainfall totals around 1.5" to 2.50" are 
forecast, highest across eastern portions of the area. Locally 
higher amounts cannot be ruled out where the heaviest downpours 
occur. 

Following the exit of the line of rain with the surface trough
by Monday morning, periods of spotty showers could continue 
across the area into Monday afternoon before the cold front 
officially passes later on Monday, leading to drier air finally 
advecting in under a NW wind by evening. 

Southerly winds this evening into the first half of tonight 
could gusts up to 30-35 mph, locally up to 40 mph. Winds will
subside overnight as the pressure gradient relaxes and low level
jet shifts east of the area. The inversion influence by the
onshore flow and slightly cooler boundary layer after sunset
should also help limit peak wind gusts to just below advisory
levels. 

Low temperatures tonight will remain mild and well-above 
average in the low to mid 50. Highs on Monday will continue
above normal in the mid-50s to near 60 with any colder air
arriving late and Monday night.

&&

.SHORT TERM /MONDAY NIGHT/...
Surface high pressure takes over tomorrow night as an upper-level 
trough centers itself over the area. Clouds will begin to clear
west to east due an exiting cold front. Much colder air will 
fall in line behind the front tomorrow night. Low are expected 
to drop into the 30s, with a few near or just below freezing in 
the far interior. While much colder than the previous night, 
these lows are are quite seasonal for this time of year.

&&

.LONG TERM /TUESDAY THROUGH SUNDAY/...
Key Points:

* Dry conditions will prevail Tuesday into Thursday morning and then 
  again next weekend with temperatures mainly above average.

* Showers become likely late Thursday and Thursday night along a 
  fast moving frontal system. 

* Breezy and cooler conditions briefly return Friday.
  
The modeling has remained relatively consistent over the last few 
days with the overall pattern progression into next weekend.
The upper trough that slowly moves overhead on Monday will slide 
offshore Tuesday morning. This is in response to a build upper 
ridge. The upper low is still expected to get trapped beneath the 
ridge over the western Atlantic into Wednesday. This will not 
directly impact our weather, but could enhance subsidence with the 
ridging aloft later Tuesday and Wednesday. The upper ridging pushes 
offshore on Thursday ahead of the next upper level trough, which 
likely lifts over the area Thursday night into Friday. The ensemble 
means then indicate a mostly zonal flow for next weekend. 

Surface high pressure will be in control Tuesday and Wednesday 
before moving offshore on Thursday. The aforementioned upper trough 
will send a fast moving frontal system across the area late Thursday 
into Thursday night. The latest model consensus indicates most of 
the daytime Thursday will be dry with just a chance of showers late 
in the afternoon. The cold front sweeps across the area Thursday 
night with the likelihood of showers. Low pressure may develop along 
the front as it passes to our east and help add more lift and 
moisture for the continuation of showers into early Friday morning. 
Guidance has come into better agreement with this scenario, but 
differ on the intensity of the low. The progressive pattern would 
favor the low to quickly push off the New England coast Friday 
morning. The NBM probabilities for greater than an inch of rain in a 
12 or 24 hour period Thursday into Thursday night remain low and 
under 10 percent, consistent with the speed of the system. The 
potential of low pressure on the front may bring a possibility of 
some wet snow flakes mixing in well inland as the system pulls away 
and draws colder air southward. 

Breezy and cooler conditions are expected on Friday under strong 
cold advection and a W-NW flow. Temperatures look to remain in the 
mid and upper 40s for highs which are slightly below average for 
March 21st. Winds will likely gust 25-35 mph. The pressure gradient 
should relax Friday night with high pressure returning for the 
remainder of the weekend. Have kept the forecast dry next weekend 
with a mainly zonal flow aloft.

&&

.AVIATION /22Z SUNDAY THROUGH FRIDAY/...
Low pressure and a cold front approach from the west into this 
evening with the cold front moving into the terminals late tonight 
into Monday morning as a wave of low pressure develops on the front. 
The frontal wave and cold front move east early Monday afternoon.

Conditions vary across the region with IFR/LIFR across Long Island 
into coastal New York City, and MVFR most other locations, and even 
local VFR inland. Conditions will be lowering back to widespread 
IFR/LIFR late afternoon into early this evening, and remain IFR/LIFR 
through tonight with showers developing this evening, with a period 
of moderate to heavy rainfall. There is also a chance of thunder 
from about 02Z to 07Z at the NYC metro terminals, however, chances 
and confidence are low, and have not included in the forecast. 
Showers gradually come to an end Monday morning into the afternoon 
with VFR late Monday afternoon.

Southerly winds, with gusts 25 to 30 kt, continue through this 
evening, with a few peak gusts to around 35 kt possible along the 
coast this afternoon. As the cold front and frontal wave move into 
the region, winds and gusts will diminish, and may for a time 
evening become light and variable. Timing of the diminishing winds 
is uncertain. As the front passes east, winds sift to the west and 
then NW/N, becoming gusty late Monday.

LLWS continues with S winds at 2kft 50-60 kt into late tonight, and 
ends from west to east 05Z to 13Z.

 ...NY Metro (KEWR/KLGA/KJFK/KTEB) TAF Uncertainty...

Unscheduled AMD likely through the TAF period to address changes in 
flight categories and timing of rain, and wind shifts.


.OUTLOOK FOR 18Z MONDAY THROUGH FRIDAY...

Monday afternoon: Generally MVFR with showers ending west to east, 
then becoming VFR, except at KGON where IFR and showers continue 
into late afternoon, ending early evening. NW/N winds G15-20 kt late 
afternoon/early evening.

Tuesday and Wednesday: VFR.

Wednesday night and Thursday morning: IFR/LIFR cigs possible 
especially along the coast. 

Thursday afternoon and night: Chance of showers with MVFR cond 
possible. S winds 10-15 kt with G20-25 kt, winds shifting to W 
during the evening.

Friday: VFR at the NYC terminals and west, MVFR/IFR east with 
showers ending late in the day, then becoming VFR. NW wind 15-20 kt 
G20-30 kt. 

Detailed information, including hourly TAF wind component forecasts, 
can be found at: https:/www.weather.gov/zny/n90

&&

.MARINE...
A strong cold front impacts the waters into Monday. There may be
some fog this evening, but visibilities should remain above 1nm.
Any fog will improve late this evening into the overnight once 
showers become widespread. 

S winds will continue to gust to 25 kt this evening on the
waters and then should increase tonight as a stronger low level
jet passes over the waters. While a strong inversion will be
in place, winds beneath may approach gales on the ocean and
eastern LI Sound. For this reason A gale warning is in effect
tonight into early Monday morning. A Small Craft Advisory
remains in effect on the remaining waters through tonight. SCA
conditions will continue on the ocean through Monday night due
to elevated seas. 

Winds on all waters should remain below SCA levels Tuesday through 
much of Thursday. Ocean seas will remain elevated at or above 5 ft 
during this period mainly due to lingering SE swells. The next chance 
for SCA winds will be Thursday night behind a cold front passage. 
There is also potential for gales on the waters on Friday under a 
strong NW flow and cold advection over the warmer waters. Seas will 
remain elevated to end the week.

&&

.HYDROLOGY...
1.5"-2.5" of total rainfall is expected this evening into early
Monday. The highest totals should occur across eastern Long
Island and southeast Connecticut. Minor nuisance flooding is the
main concern although a localized flash flood occurrence cannot
be ruled out for the areas that see the heaviest rain out east. 

No hydrologic impacts are expected Tuesday into next weekend.

&&

.OKX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CT...None.
NY...None.
NJ...None.
MARINE...Small Craft Advisory until 6 AM EDT Monday for ANZ331-335-338-
     345.
     Gale Warning until 6 AM EDT Monday for ANZ332-350-353-355.
     Small Craft Advisory until 8 AM EDT Monday for ANZ340.

&&

$$

SYNOPSIS...BR/DS
NEAR TERM...BR/DS
SHORT TERM...BR
LONG TERM...DS
AVIATION...MET
MARINE...BR/DS
HYDROLOGY...BR/DS
