761 
FXUS61 KOKX 200531
AFDOKX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service New York NY
1231 AM EST Mon Jan 20 2025

.SYNOPSIS...
Deepening low pressure off the Mid Atlantic coast will quickly
pass to the east of the area tonight and up into the Canadian 
Maritimes by daybreak Monday. An arctic airmass will then build 
in through mid week with high pressure building in from the west. 
High pressure moves overhead Wednesday night into Thursday and 
then offshore thereafter. A frontal system passes offshore Friday 
before another high builds in from the west for next weekend.

&&

.NEAR TERM /UNTIL 6 AM THIS MORNING/...
Made some slight adjustments with POPs and weather for snow.
South Fork changing over to snow now. Heaviest of snow across
mainly Southern Connecticut New Haven to New London and Suffolk
County Long Island for late this evening. Snow mostly light to
the west but still continuing into late this evening. 

For interior NE NJ, Lower Hudson Valley and interior SW CT, 
thinking there is potential for some snowfall totals near 8 
inches within this region. Lower end of snowfall range for
southern coasts of Long Island, mostly in the 3 to 4 inch 
range.

The low will pass quickly to the east this evening and up into 
the Canadian Maritimes by daybreak Monday.

Liquid equivalent amounts on average area expected to range 
from 0.4 to 0.6" with some localized enhancements. Ratios will 
vary quite a bit at the start with temperatures in 30s, but at 
some point should get into the 15-10:1 range as temperatures 
fall. Expect snowfall amounts of 3 to 5 inches along the coast 
and 5 to 8 inches across the interior. Still no changes are 
planned to the hazards at this time. The snow will become light 
and end around midnight for NYC and points north and west and 3 
to 4 am far eastern areas. 

Temperatures will tumble into the upper teens to around 20 by 
daybreak with N-NW winds gusting 20 to 25 mph, possibly up to 
30 mph. Wind Chill values fall into the single digits overnight
and possibly as low as zero for the interior. These values fall
short of Cold Weather Advisory (-5F at the coast and -10F 
inland).

&&

.SHORT TERM /6 AM THIS MORNING THROUGH 6 PM TUESDAY/...
Low pressure strengthens as it moves northeast into the Canadian 
Maritimes with strong high pressure moving in from the west. This 
tight pressure gradient will keep a gusty westerly flow, with cold 
aid advection increasing.

Weather will be dry and very cold. Temperatures expected to be well 
below normal.

Arctic airmass encompasses the area with NW winds ushering in colder 
air. There will be strong cold air advection. Any leftover snowmelt
will refreeze and lead to slippery conditions for any untreated
surfaces. Temperatures forecast in single digits to lower teens
for morning with wind chills several degrees colder. Max temperatures
forecast only in the low to upper 20s. Went below MOS for the 
high temperatures. With gusty westerly flow continuing, wind 
chills will be at most, mainly within the lower teens on Monday.

For Monday night, the cold air advection continues. The westerly 
gusty flow continues as well. Forecast lows are in the single digits 
to lower teens for much of the area. The minimum wind chills are 
mostly below zero with some locations near -5 to -10 degrees 
towards early Tuesday morning.

&&

.LONG TERM /TUESDAY NIGHT THROUGH SUNDAY/...
Mainly dry and very cold to start Tuesday through Thursday, with
some moderation of the airmass Friday into next weekend.

Main upper jet remains south of the region Tuesday through Friday, 
with then a return to more zonal flow.  Main trough in mid levels 
remains over the Northeast Tuesday into Wednesday and then another 
trough develops, moves in latter half of the week but more zonal for 
next weekend.

Looks like the core of this arctic airmass will be across the local 
region Tuesday through Wednesday. Strong high pressure will continue 
to slowly build in from the west and move overhead Wednesday night 
into Thursday. Gusty westerly flow Tuesday will subside Tuesday 
night into Wednesday. Winds become nearly calm Wednesday night and 
change direction to more SW.

The strong high pressure will still have its core to the west of the 
region Tuesday night into Wednesday but a passing wave of low 
pressure far offshore may result in brief snow to far southeast 
parts of the region. Some models are indicating the far southeast 
portions of the region on the northern fringe of the precipitation 
from the low. Chances are low for any snow and expecting mainly
dry conditions to prevail.

Forecast highs are only in the teens Tuesday and get closer to 20 
for Wednesday. Max wind chills Tuesday mostly in single digits and 
then more in the teens for Wednesday. Lows Tuesday night mostly in 
the single digits and then for Wednesday night interior is mostly in 
single digits with coast mostly near 10. Minimum wind chills Tuesday 
night below zero for most areas, and a greater fraction getting near 
-5 to -10 degrees, locally near -15 degrees for isolated locations.

Low pressure system passes offshore Thursday night and then farther 
out into the Atlantic Friday into next weekend. There could be some 
snow across far southeastern sections of the region, just a slight 
chance, with otherwise dry conditions continuing.

Across the local area, another high pressure area builds in from the 
west for Friday into next weekend. Mainly dry weather conditions are 
expected. 

The airmass is forecast to moderate Thursday and thereafter into 
next weekend. High temperatures forecast return to mostly mid to 
upper 20s much of the area Thursday, but southeast sections lower 
30s. Then forecast highs Friday lower 30s areawide and then rising 
more within the 30s for next weekend.

&&

.AVIATION /06Z MONDAY THROUGH FRIDAY/...
High pressure builds in through the forecast period as low 
pressure pushes east of the area tonight. 

Generally MVFR to VFR conditions continuing to improve toward VFR. 
Some redevelopment of snow will move across the forecast area 
through about 07Z and have added TEMPO groups to those terminals 
that may be affected by this. Thereafter, all terminals should be 
VFR through the forecast period. 

High pressure builds in with gusty winds behind the low, 
generally around 25 kt. An isolated gust of 30 to 35 kt through 
around 08Z. Gusts may drop off briefly prior to and just after 
daybreak, but are expected to return Monday, with gusts ending 
between 23Z-01Z

 ...NY Metro (KEWR/KLGA/KJFK/KTEB) TAF Uncertainty... 

Amendments possible for brief snow redevelopment possible 
through 07Z. Thereafter, no unscheduled amendments expected.

.OUTLOOK FOR 06Z TUESDAY THROUGH FRIDAY...

Late Monday night: VFR. 

Tuesday: VFR. W wind gusts around 20 kt.

Wednesday: Chance of MVFR or lower in -SN, particularly coastal 
terminals.

Thursday: VFR.

Friday: Mainly VFR, Chance of MVFR in light snow.

Detailed information, including hourly TAF wind component forecasts, 
can be found at: https:/www.weather.gov/zny/n90

&&

.MARINE...
Deepening low pressure passes to the east of the waters this
evening and then up into the Canadian Maritimes by daybreak.
Arctic high pressure will begin to build in from west. This will
is a strong N/NW flow overnight with gusts on all waters
25-30kt on Monday. 

SCA conditions continue on the ocean Monday night. Wind gusts 
will be marginal for SCA for non-ocean marine zones Monday 
night. Some lingering SCA conditions possible on the ocean 
Tuesday with otherwise mainly sub-SCA conditions Tuesday onward 
through Friday night. Some potential SCA conditions on the 
ocean Tuesday night and Friday night.

Freezing spray potential for some of the waters Monday through 
Monday night.

&&

.HYDROLOGY...
No hydrologic issues are anticipated through Saturday.

&&

.OKX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CT...Winter Storm Warning until 4 AM EST early this morning for 
     CTZ005>008.
     Winter Weather Advisory until 4 AM EST early this morning for 
     CTZ009>012.
NY...Winter Storm Warning until 4 AM EST early this morning for 
     NYZ067>070.
     Winter Weather Advisory until 4 AM EST early this morning for 
     NYZ071>075-078>081-176>179.
NJ...Winter Storm Warning until 4 AM EST early this morning for 
     NJZ002-004-103>105-107.
     Winter Weather Advisory until 4 AM EST early this morning for 
     NJZ006-106-108.
MARINE...Small Craft Advisory until 6 PM EST this evening for ANZ331-
     332-335-338-340-345.
     Small Craft Advisory until 7 AM EST Tuesday for ANZ350-353-355.

&&

$$

SYNOPSIS...DW
NEAR TERM...JM/DW
SHORT TERM...JM/DW
LONG TERM...JMC/JM
AVIATION...JP
MARINE...JM/DW
HYDROLOGY...JM/DW
