275 
FXUS61 KOKX 062116
AFDOKX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service New York NY
516 PM EDT Sun Jul 6 2025

.SYNOPSIS...
High pressure remains offshore into Monday. Weak low pressure
passes nearby Monday afternoon into Monday night. A cold front 
approaches Tuesday and moves over the area Tuesday night. The 
front likely stalls nearby the rest of the week leading to 
unsettled conditions, potentially into next weekend.

&&

.NEAR TERM /UNTIL 6 AM MONDAY MORNING/...
Warm and increasingly muggy conditions are expected tonight as
high pressure remains offshore. SW flow will advect 
increasingly higher dew points through the night and help 
increase lower level moisture. Some fog is possible overnight, 
especially the eastern half of the area and close to the coast. 
There should otherwise be increasing clouds through day break 
Monday. Conditions will remain dry as there is no forcing for 
any showers through day break. Lows will be in the upper 60s 
inland to lower and middle 70s near the coast.

&&

.SHORT TERM /6 AM MONDAY MORNING THROUGH TUESDAY NIGHT/...
Key Messages...

*Showers and possible thunderstorms late Monday morning into Monday 
evening, especially in the vicinity of the NYC metro, NE NJ into 
Lower Hudson Valley, could produce locally torrential downpours. 
Localized flash flooding is possible from any of these 
showers/storms.

*Warm and humid conditions Monday and Tuesday with max heat indices 
in the lower 90s Monday and mid to upper 90s on Tuesday. 

*Showers and thunderstorms possible Tuesday afternoon and evening 
with a continued chance of locally heavy downpours. 

The main concern on Monday will be the development of showers and 
possible thunderstorms late morning into the afternoon. The 
extratropical remnant circulation of Chantal will likely track over 
the Delmarva in the afternoon and then offshore Monday evening and 
night. It should be emphasized that the circulation will no longer 
be tropical, but leftover tropical moisture will be present 
across the northeast. This moisture will act on the sea breeze 
boundary as well as some middle level energy to promote the 
development of showers and a few thunderstorms. PWATs are quite 
high and range from 2-2.25 inches. There is some question to the
amount of instability, but model soundings indicate a long and 
relatively skinny CAPE, which is common in more tropical air 
masses. Freezing levels look to average around 15kft as well, 
supportive of efficient/warm rain processes. The 12z CAMs all 
signal convective development across portions of NE NJ into the 
Lower Hudson Valley, potentially into the NYC metro. Elsewhere, 
showers are possible but coverage looks to be lower and could 
just be isolated. No flood watch has been issued at this time, 
but WPC has placed NE NJ, NYC metro, and Lower Hudson Valley in 
a marginal risk for excessive rainfall. 

Basin averaged rainfall amounts around one quarter of an inch 
possible with some local areas receiving 1-2 inches with higher 
amounts. Some locations may see little to no rainfall through Monday 
evening.

Focus for showers shifts to the eastern part of the area Monday 
night with the weak wave of low pressure passing to our south.
It appears most of the coverage should be offshore, but cannot rule 
out some showers or isolated thunderstorms across portions of Long 
Island or even southeast Connecticut. 

For Tuesday, a cold front slowly approaches from the north and west. 
Ahead of the front, tropical moisture will linger with PWATs around 
2 inches. Showers and thunderstorms are likely to develop in the 
afternoon and evening along and ahead of the cold front from the NYC 
metro on NW. This activity will then slide eastward in the evening 
and at night. The main concern from this activity will once again be 
torrential downpours and localized flash flooding. WPC continues to 
place the entire area in a marginal risk for excessive rainfall on 
Tuesday. An isolated severe thunderstorm is possible Tuesday 
afternoon/evening and SPC has much of the area in a marginal 
risk. 

No heat advisories have been issued at this time for Monday and 
Tuesday. Temperatures have continued to trend slightly lower for 
Monday, likely due to increasing cloud cover and earlier timing of 
convection. Highs looks to range from the middle to upper 80s with 
max heat indices in the lower 90s. It will be warmer on Tuesday as 
highs should be in the upper 80s to lower 90s. There is still some 
question to the amount of cloud cover and how high dew points will 
be in the warmest part of the day. There are hints at the flow 
becoming more SW-W which could lower dew points a bit. Heat indices 
should be higher, in the middle to upper 90s. Have held off on the 
issuance of a heat advisory for Tuesday since this is just one day 
occurrence and there is little to no coverage of heat indices 
above 100. 

The front moves over or just east of the area Tuesday night. The 
front may begin stalling nearby, which could promote continued 
showers/storms for the eastern half of the area.

&&

.LONG TERM /WEDNESDAY THROUGH SUNDAY/...
The NBM was generally followed given the unsettled nature of 
the pattern for the extended period.

A stalled front south of the area on Wednesday will remain in
the general vicinity through the end of the week and into the 
weekend. High pressure over the western Atlantic will allow for 
the persistent advection of moisture over the front and into the
area through much of the week. This will lead to the 
development of scattered showers and storms through much of the 
middle and end of the week, though storms are generally more 
likely in the afternoon and early evening hours with the 
presence of daytime heating.

Additional energy in the flow approaches the area by the end of
the week and may result in another round of showers and storms,
though guidance has been backing off on high pressure building 
in thereafter. Unsettled conditions may persist through the 
weekend.

Despite the ample cloud cover and general unsettled conditions this 
week, temperatures should be right around average for this time of 
the year with highs each day in the low to middle 80s.

&&

.AVIATION /21Z SUNDAY THROUGH FRIDAY/...
High pressure this afternoon weakens tonight and Monday as a weak 
wave of low pressure approaches from the south.

VFR through this evening with mostly MVFR/IFR developing 
overnight. Improvement back to mostly VFR on Monday, however showers 
with a chance of thunderstorms starting at around noontime bring 
lower flight categories.

S-SW winds 10-15kt with gusts around 20kt bcmg more southerly 
tonight and diminishing. Winds pick up from the south on Monday, 
increasing back to 10-15kt with possible gusts around 20kt.

 ...NY Metro (KEWR/KLGA/KJFK/KTEB) TAF Uncertainty... 

Gusts today may be only occasional.  

.OUTLOOK FOR 18Z MONDAY THROUGH FRIDAY... 

Monday through Friday: Primarily VFR each day with mainly afternoon 
and evening showers/tstms possible with MVFR or IFR cond. Highest 
chance exists from late Mon through Tue evening. 

Detailed information, including hourly TAF wind component forecasts, 
can be found at: https:/www.weather.gov/zny/n90

&&

.MARINE...
A few gusts close to 25 kt are possible on the ocean this 
afternoon/evening. Otherwise, conditions will remain below
SCA levels on the waters through Monday. Seas begin building 
Monday night into Tuesday and may approach 5 ft east of Moriches
Inlet into Tuesday night from a SE swell. Generally weak flow 
will result in sub-SCA conditions on all waters through at least
Friday.

&&

.HYDROLOGY...
Locally torrential downpours are possible late Monday morning into 
Monday evening, especially across NE NJ, NYC metro, and Lower Hudson 
Valley. This activity could produce localized flash flooding and WPC 
has this area in a Marginal risk for excessive rainfall. The risk 
for locally torrential downpours and localized flash flooding 
remains possible on Tuesday for the entire area. WPC has maintained 
a marginal risk for excessive rainfall for Tuesday.

&&

.TIDES/COASTAL FLOODING...
The rip risk for all beaches will be moderate both Monday and
Tuesday. Surf heights around four ft are likely over the 
period, but may increase to near 5ft by Tuesday, especially 
across NYC, Nassau and western Suffolk beaches.

&&

.OKX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CT...Air Quality Alert until 11 PM EDT this evening for CTZ005-009.
     Air Quality Alert from 11 AM to 11 PM EDT Monday for CTZ005-
     009.
NY...Air Quality Alert until 11 PM EDT this evening for NYZ069>075-
     176-178.
NJ...Air Quality Alert until 11 PM EDT this evening for NJZ002-004-
     006-103>108.
MARINE...None.

&&

$$

SYNOPSIS...DS/MW
NEAR TERM...DS
SHORT TERM...DS
LONG TERM...
AVIATION...JC
MARINE...DS/MW
HYDROLOGY...DS/MW
TIDES/COASTAL FLOODING...
