255 
FXUS61 KOKX 060750
AFDOKX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service New York NY
350 AM EDT Tue May 6 2025

.SYNOPSIS...
A frontal boundary remains near the region today as high pressure 
moves across the Canadian Maritimes. At the same time, a broad area 
of low pressure over the Ohio Valley will slowly track east. The 
front gradually north tonight, while low pressure approaches from 
the west. The low will then slide northeast through the area on 
Wednesday. A cold front will approach from the northwest on Thursday 
and stall nearby Thursday night as low pressure develops along it 
over the Mid Atlantic region. Low pressure will track over or just 
southeast of the region Friday into early Saturday, before heading 
up the New England coast. Another cold front will approach from the 
northwest on Sunday.

&&

.NEAR TERM /UNTIL 6 PM THIS EVENING/...
A band of showers, some of it moderate to locally heavy 
continues to stream northward off the ocean, mainly impacting 
portions of eastern Long Island and eastern CT. Right now, as 
the precip move northward, it it also slowly shifting eastward, 
which has prevented any flooding issues across these areas. This
rainfall has also been gradually weakening over the last 30-45 
minutes. 

We may get a break in the precipitation this morning as this band 
slides eastward, however there will continue to be a chance of 
showers throughout the day. While the forecast calls for mostly 
cloudy skies, there is a chance that some partial clearing occurs. 
If it does, there may be a bit more instability this afternoon, 
especially west of the NYC metro area. There still looks to be 
enough of a marine influence to keep it more elevated and unlikely 
to reach severe limits. With the upper low approaching, impulses 
will move in from the south with additional bands/pockets of rain. 
Localized amounts up to an inch will be possibly with potential 
training of cells in a deep-layered southerly flow. Minor nuisance 
flooding will continue to be possible. 

Temperatures will climb into the middle and upper 60s to lower
70s. 

&&

.SHORT TERM /6 PM THIS EVENING THROUGH 6 PM WEDNESDAY/...
The threat of showers and possible thunder continues tonight with 
the best chances for any storms west of NYC, mainly early in the 
period where the airmass has its best chance to be unstable. POPs 
gradually decrease after midnight, but don't completely go 
away. 

As the low lifts north of the region, the trough axis moves over the 
area. As the trough moves across the area and interacts with a cold 
pool aloft plus any daytime heating should result in enough 
instability for at least some showers and thunderstorms from about 
late Wed morning into the evening. The best chances for any storms 
right now appear to be N and NW of NYC.

Lows tonight fall into the 50s. Daytime highs on Wednesday will be 
in the 60s and lower 70s. 

&&

.LONG TERM /WEDNESDAY NIGHT THROUGH MONDAY/...
No significant changes in the overall forecast pattern through the 
long term and stuck fairly close to the previous forecast/NBM. 

The period starts off Wednesday night with low pressure departing 
the region with drier conditions working into the area. The drying 
conditions in the wake of this low will be short lived as the next 
cold front approaches Thursday afternoon and evening. 

Good agreement in surface cyclogenesis over the Mid Atlantic region 
along the cold front Thursday night into Friday as the digging 
northern stream trough phases with the southern jet and closes off 
at its base across the Central Appalachians. One change from the 
previous forecast is the timing, with the latest NBM speeding up the 
timing of this system. Regardless, Friday appears to be a rather wet 
day, the question is how quickly does this system depart the region. 
Will it be Friday later afternoon/evening or does is slow down 
enough that the does not depart until late Friday night into early 
Saturday. 

Either way, expect a period of moderate to locally heavy rain late 
Thursday night into Friday with deep layered lift and convergence of 
Gulf/sub-tropical moisture feed over the region as low pressure 
tracks over or near the region.

Conditions improve on Saturday in wake of the low pressure system. 
Another shortwave likely crosses the area with cold frontal passage 
Sunday afternoon/evening. Expect dry conditions to start the week as 
high pressure builds back into the area for Monday and Tuesday. 

Temperatures will be near to slightly above seasonable for Thursday, 
falling to a few to several degrees below seasonable Friday with low 
pressure affecting the area. Temperatures then moderate back to 
normal on Saturday, then above seasonable for Sunday into early next 
week.


&&

.AVIATION /08Z TUESDAY THROUGH SATURDAY/...
Frontal boundary remains stalled within the region through the
TAF period.

Mainly IFR or lower with low clouds, few spots of fog, and 
periods of rain through the morning hours. Improvement to MVFR 
late in the day to early evening. Showers still anticipated to
end or become much more isolated in the evening. Dry and returning
to VFR overnight, with possible IFR conditions of low ceilings
and fog lingering for eastern terminals, mainly KGON, past 6Z
Wed.

Winds easterly around 10kt, backing more SE for Tuesday
afternoon. Gusts around 20 kt may be occasional at some
terminals, but could prevail KISP. KGON, possibly. Winds back
south late in the evening, dropping below 10 kt, then outlying
terminals may go light and variable overnight, with other
terminals near 5 kt, becoming SW.

 ...NY Metro (KEWR/KLGA/KJFK/KTEB) TAF Uncertainty...

Vsbys will fluctuate between LIFR and VFR this morning, but 
cigs should remain mostly IFR/LIFR. Timing of improvement of 
each category Tue into Tue night could be off by a couple of 
hours. Can't rule out an isolated tstm during the day or early
evening.

.OUTLOOK FOR 06Z WEDNESDAY THROUGH SATURDAY...

Wednesday: VFR/MVFR in the morning with IFR east of the city
terminals, then mainly VFR in the afternoon. Chance of showers 
and slight chance of thunderstorms.

Thursday: MVFR possible with a chance of showers, mainly at
night.

Friday: MVFR possible with a chance of showers. A slight chance
of thunderstorms.

Saturday: Mainly VFR, except MVFR or lower possible in slight 
chance of showers.

Detailed information, including hourly TAF wind component 
forecasts, can be found at: https:/www.weather.gov/zny/n90

&&

.MARINE...
Marginal SCA conditions for seas around 5 ft will continue through 
the day Tuesday in an E/SE flow. Latest NWPS guidance has the 5 ft 
seas continuing into tonight, so will extend the SCA to cover that 
time period. With uncertainty with just how long the 5ft seas last, 
will extend all the ocean zones through tonight, however as seas 
fall, the SCA may be able to end early. 

Marginal 4-5 ft ocean seas possible Wed into Wed night in mainly a 
residual E/SE swell, with sub SCA conditions likely on Thu under a 
weak pressure gradient.

Next potential for SCA conditions Fri/Sat on all waters with coastal 
low pressure. Low prob for gales on the ocean in E/SE flow ahead of 
the low if stronger coastal development evolves.

&&

.HYDROLOGY...
An additional 0.5-1.50 inches of rainfall will be possible with 
locally higher amounts possible in any thunderstorms or storm 
training through tonight. Generally looking at nuisance ponding 
of water with just an isolated flash flood threat. 

There is the potential for a period of moderate to locally 
heavy rain for late Thursday night and Friday time period. 



&&

.OKX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CT...None.
NY...None.
NJ...None.
MARINE...Dense Fog Advisory until 11 AM EDT this morning for ANZ350-353-
     355.
     Small Craft Advisory until 6 AM EDT Wednesday for ANZ350-353-
     355.

&&

$$

SYNOPSIS...BC
NEAR TERM...BC
SHORT TERM...BC
LONG TERM...BC
AVIATION...BR
MARINE...BC
HYDROLOGY...BC
