963 
FXUS61 KOKX 292006
AFDOKX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service New York NY
406 PM EDT Sat Mar 29 2025

.SYNOPSIS...
A backdoor cold front will pass through the area by early this
evening. The same front then returns on Sunday, lifting through
the area Sunday night. A cold frontal passage Monday night will
allow high pressure to build in through the middle of next week.
Another frontal system will likely impact the area for the end 
of the week.

&&

.NEAR TERM /UNTIL 6 AM SUNDAY MORNING/...
A backdoor cold front has worked into SW CT and central LI. In 
most cases, temperatures are dropping 15 to 20 degrees from the
70s into the 50s in a 1-2 hour timeframe. The front is expected
to push west of the area by 8 pm. Showers were also developing 
along the boundary with MUCAPE of 100-250 J/KG. Expect mainly 
scattered showers this evening, but an isolated elevated 
thunderstorm is not completely out of the question as the 
shallow low level cold air undercuts the warm aloft. Once the 
cold front passes, there will be a low chance of showers through
the night with some weak WAA. 

Under mostly cloudy skies, lows will range from the upper 30s 
across interior southern CT, to the lower 40s for the rest of 
the area. This is about 5 degrees above normal.

&&

.SHORT TERM /6 AM SUNDAY MORNING THROUGH SUNDAY NIGHT/...
Expect mainly dry conditions on Sunday as the best thermal
forcing lifts north of the area. However, easterly flow and low
clouds will result in a much cooler day with highs ranging from
the mid 40s eastern LI/SE CT, to the lower and mid 50s across
western portions of the Lower Hudson Valley and the NYC/NJ
metro. Patchy fog is also a possibility but more likely at 
night as the boundary moves across the area. There is some 
uncertainty here with some of the model guidance supporting 
colder 2m temps. The NBM and CONSENUS are a bit warmer. Went in 
between the warmer NBM and cooler model consensus.

Warm front approaches Sunday night and passes to the north of
the area by the early morning hours in a strengthening southerly
flow. Chance of showers will increase at night but still not
expecting high chances with rainfall amounts expected to be less
than a tenth of an inch. Lows will pretty much be what the 
highs were on Sunday as temperatures will gradually rise Sunday
night. Toward daybreak Monday, temperatures will be in the 50s,
possibly nearing 60 across NE NJ and the NYC metro. 

&&

.LONG TERM /MONDAY THROUGH SATURDAY/...
The modeling over the long term has remained relatively consistent. 
The first sys is a cdfnt Mon and Mon ngt. The fropa is still timed 
for Mon ngt. Some sct shwrs possible during the day Mon as heights 
fall in general, but the best forcing is invof the sfc front which 
reaches wrn areas around 00Z, bisects the area around 6Z, and is 
offshore by 12Z Tue. Some subtle changes in the timing possible as 
we draw closer to the event. Continued with slight chcs for tstms 
with the best forcing late Mon and Mon ngt. Most of the convection 
attm should be elevated, limiting impacts to heavier pockets of rain 
and isold lightning. However, tightly packed thicknesses along with 
cold pool processes could produce a strong burst of winds behind the 
front. Best estimates attm 40-50kt peak gusts possible in this 
scenario.

NW flow and clearing on Tue. Temps back close to normal in the 50s. 
It still looks cold Tue ngt with the high building in. The fcst 
remains mainly 20s with a few 30s in the warmest urban/cstl 
locations.

Increasing clouds ahead of the next sys Wed. Chances for shwrs Wed 
ngt thru Fri and perhaps Sat as a wrmfnt comes thru, followed by the 
associated cdfnt which potentially stalls in the area. Right now the 
modeling does not suggest rain for days on end, but with the front 
in the area and quasizonal flow aloft, there will be periods of 
possible shwrs. Went with the blended approach and stuck with the 
NBM for this time period.

&&

.AVIATION /20Z SATURDAY THROUGH THURSDAY/...
A frontal boundary will be the focus of the TAF period. The boundary 
is currently moving through and makes its way farther southwest 
through the city terminals to begin this evening.

VFR conditions begin the TAF period. As the front moves southwest, a 
switch from WSW-SW winds to more E winds takes place to begin this 
evening. There will be some continued gusts near 20 kt into a 
portion of this evening. The winds go quickly ENE with the frontal 
passage.

A few rain showers, especially across northern most terminals into 
this evening. Increasing chances for MVFR late this afternoon 
towards KGON and eastern terminals, then towards and into this 
evening further west. MVFR prevails this evening, with IFR towards 
and just after midnight. IFR is expected to continue into Sunday 
morning with a period of LIFR which is currently handled with TEMPO 
groups. Northern terminals have relatively higher chances of 
showers. Slight possibility for thunderstorms tonight for some 
terminals. Patchy fog and drizzle remains a possibility late tonight 
and early Sunday morning.

 ...NY Metro (KEWR/KLGA/KJFK/KTEB) TAF Uncertainty... 

Amendments becoming more likely around the timing of flight category 
changes to MVFR and IFR tonight. The timing could be a few hours off 
from TAF.

.OUTLOOK FOR 18Z SUNDAY THROUGH THURSDAY...

Sunday afternoon: MVFR and IFR. E winds 5 to 10 kt.

Sunday night: MVFR to IFR. Areas of fog developing at night. 
Increasing chances for showers, becoming likely for some terminals. 
S wind gusts 15-20 kt developing late.

Monday: MVFR to IFR with chance of showers, becoming more  likely 
afternoon and at night with chance of thunderstorms afternoon into 
night. Areas of fog early, becoming more patchy late morning into 
afternoon before redeveloping at night. S-SW wind gusts 20-25kt, 
becoming NW late at night.

Tuesday: VFR. N-NW wind gusts around 20 kt daytime, just for  some 
coastal terminals at night.

Wednesday: Mainly VFR but chances for MVFR at night with increasing 
chance of showers. E-SE wind gusts 15-20 kt.

Thursday: VFR, with pockets of MVFR possible in showers.

Detailed information, including hourly TAF wind component forecasts, 
can be found at: https:/www.weather.gov/zny/n90

&&

.MARINE...
SCA all waters to start with a gusty easterly flow developing 
with the passage of a backdoor cold front. Winds on the non- 
ocean waters drop off toward midnight but it will be bit later
for the ocean waters. Seas will also start off around 5 ft 
Sunday morning for the ocean waters east of Fire Island Inlet. 
A brief respite Sunday before southerly winds increase ahead of
an approaching cold front. SCA conditions are likely to return 
to the ocean waters after midnight Sunday. 

A frontal sys will produce solid SCA cond on the ocean Mon and 
Mon ngt, with gales possible. Elsewhere, SCA winds possible. 
There will likely be areas of fog, possibly a few tstms, and 
maybe a burst of gale force winds as the associated cold front 
passes thru Mon ngt.

A SCA will be needed on the ocean for Tue, with winds mrgnl 
elsewhere. Winds on Wed blw SCA lvls, but seas on the ocean may 
remain aoa 5 ft. Winds and seas come up again Thu with another 
frontal sys. 

&&

.FIRE WEATHER...
A special weather statement remains out for NE NJ, the Lower 
Hudson Valley, NYC, and Long Island until 6 pm.

An backdoor cold frontal passage followed by easterly winds, 
scattered showers and a colder airmass will end the threat. 

&&

.HYDROLOGY...
Some localized minor flooding, mainly urban and poor drainage, is 
possible late Mon and Mon ngt with a frontal sys. No additional 
hydrologic impacts are expected Tue-Sat. 

&&

.TIDES/COASTAL FLOODING...
With tides running astronomically high with the new moon, less
surge will be needed for minor coastal flooding. An easterly
flow behind a back door cold front this afternoon into early
this evening will allow for enough of a surge across western LI
Sound to push water levels to right around coastal flood 
benchmarks around the time of high tide. These locations are 
mainly along Southern Fairfield CT and with exceedance of minor 
benchmarks only expected to be 0.2 ft or less, coastal flood 
statements are in effect for the times of high tide tonight 
from 10PM to 1AM EDT. 

More sites are forecast to reach minor coastal flood benchmarks
for Sunday night, expanding beyond the shorelines of Fairfield
CT to also include some other adjacent shoreline areas along 
Western LI Sound as well as the Long Island South Shore Bays and
the Lower NY Harbor.

&&


$$

SYNOPSIS...JMC/DW
NEAR TERM...DW
SHORT TERM...DW
LONG TERM...JMC
AVIATION...JE
MARINE...JMC/DW
FIRE WEATHER...
HYDROLOGY...JMC/DW
TIDES/COASTAL FLOODING...
CLIMATE...
