178 
FXUS61 KOKX 231817
AFDOKX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service New York NY
217 PM EDT Sun Mar 23 2025

.SYNOPSIS...
High pressure builds in today, followed by a frontal system that 
will impact the area tonight and Monday. A weak area of low 
pressure passes to the south and east late Tuesday night into 
Wednesday. High pressure then builds in from the southwest on 
Thursday, passing to the south on Friday as a weak disturbance 
passes to the north. A frontal system may impact the region 
Saturday.

&&

.NEAR TERM /UNTIL 6 PM THIS EVENING/...
The forecast is mainly on track. Hourly temperatures and
dewpoints have been adjusted with this update to account for the
latest obs and trends.

A high pres ridge builds across the cwa today. Winds will be 
strongest this morning until the pressure gradient relaxes. 
Sunny, then high clouds begin to overspread the region by late 
in the aftn. The NBM was followed for temps, which yield highs 
in the 40s to around 50.

&&

.SHORT TERM /6 PM THIS EVENING THROUGH TUESDAY/...
Thickening high clouds this eve, then increasing thetae allows for 
pcpn to develop late. Across the interior, a mix of rain, sleet, and 
snow is expected, changing to all rain Mon mrng as the 50kt lljet 
warms the airmass. There could be some pockets of fzra across the 
interior before the changeover, but the coverage and probability are 
too low attm to include it in the fcst or issue an advy.

Went with a blend of the HREF and HIRESWarw for temps tngt thru
16Z Mon, which was just about the coldest soln that could be 
found. Despite use of the colder data, very few pots remain aob
freezing while pcpn occurs, reinforcing the limited the fzra 
threat attm. Best chance is nwrn interior spots from Orange 
county to Passaic. Snow and sleet on the front end still 
possible despite the warmer sfc temps due to the temp profile 
aloft, but this rises significantly by 12Z Mon, after which any 
mix rapidly transitions to rain based on the current model 
timing of the sys.

There could be an isold tstm late mrng into the aftn as a strong jet 
streak approaches. This will at a minimum enhance rain chances thru 
the day and keep the pcpn from clearing out aft the initial waa
surge.

S winds likely to pick up on the srn coast as the associated weak 
low tracks invof LI. The exact track of the low will determine 
how far N the extent of the winds get, but right now it looks 
like LI has the best shot of being in this zone. Possible for 
gusts over 40kt, especially if there is convection.

The area dries out from W to E late in the aftn and into the
first part of Mon ngt as the narrow ribbon of moisture is
shunted offshore. Well mixed wly component flow Mon ngt so
likely windy again. With h85 around 35 kt looks blw advy lvls
attm. 

H85 around -3C on Tue, but with a deep well mixed wly flow,
highs progged in the 50s.

&&

.LONG TERM /TUESDAY NIGHT THROUGH SUNDAY/...
Still looking at rather quiet period as a longwave trough over 
eastern Canada south into the Mid Atlantic states on Wednesday lifts 
out to the north and east through the end of the week. The forecast 
area remains on the northern periphery of weak low pressure passing 
to the south and east late Tuesday night into Wednesday. 
Precipitation chances remain low with a chance of rain and/or snow 
inland at the start going over to rain. Temperatures are marginal 
and any snow accumulation looks to be light at best across the 
interior. The GFS the last 24h as trended toward a deeper trough 
with the associated jet energy passing farther to the south off the 
Mid Atlantic coast. This keeps the low far south with no 
precipitation. However, this is the more progressive and 
southernmost solution of the 00Z operational models. Wednesday looks 
to be the coldest day of the week, with lows ranging from around 
freezing inland to 35 to 40 at the coast, with highs 45 to 50. This 
is close to normal.

For the second half of the week, temperatures warm into the 50s with 
the warmest day on Friday. However, there is some uncertainty with 
northern branch energy Friday into Saturday diving in from the NW 
out of central Canada while the mean upper trough is lifting out of 
the Northeast. Confluent flow between the two streams could allow 
for a more southward frontal zone and a quick shot of colder air to 
settle briefly south across the Northeast Friday night before 
lifting back to the north over the weekend with a chance of 
overrunning precipitation. Right now, there are low chances for rain 
on Saturday with temperatures well above freezing.

&&

.AVIATION /18Z SUNDAY THROUGH FRIDAY/...
A frontal system approaches into tonight, moving across early 
Monday and then northeast of the area Monday night. 
Precipitation event coming up will be mainly in the form of 
rain late tonight through Monday, but some possible mixing with
sleet at the onset.

For KSWF, a wintry mix of snow and rain expected late tonight 
into Monday morning, then plain rain. There will be potential
for some sleet as well for a brief period early Monday morning. 
The rain becomes more intermittent and not as continuous for 
late Monday afternoon.

VFR continues through much of tonight. Then MVFR to IFR for late 
tonight into early Monday morning. Mainly IFR expected for much of 
Monday with some improvement to MVFR late Monday afternoon into 
Monday night. Expecting some LIFR for Monday as well. 

NW winds around 10 kt becoming more WNW this afternoon. Gusts
linger for another few hours at KBDR, KISP and KGON where NW 
gusts to near 20 kt expected. Winds eventually transition to 
more southerly flow late this afternoon into tonight for most 
terminals and remain southerly through rest of TAF period. 
Sustained wind speeds generally near 5-10 kt, increasing late 
tonight into Monday to 10-15 kt along coast, without much change
farther inland. Gusts near coast near 20 kt, some gusts near 25
to 30 kt for some coastal terminals for Monday. Gusts lower 
slightly Monday afternoon and may become more intermittent.

Low level wind shear expected for a time period Monday, 12-20Z,
with 40-45 kt SW winds at 2kft just for some coastal terminals,
KJFK, KLGA, KISP and KGON.

 ...NY Metro (KEWR/KLGA/KJFK/KTEB) TAF Uncertainty... 

Timing of categorical changes could be a few hours off from 
TAF. Categories could fluctuate back and forth between MVFR and
IFR as well as LIFR late tonight through Monday.

Timing of wind shift to more southerly flow could be 1-2 hours
off from TAF.

.OUTLOOK FOR 18Z MONDAY THROUGH FRIDAY...

Monday afternoon-Monday night: IFR with rain, tapering off late
day into evening. SW wind gusts near 20 kt for afternoon.
Improvement to MVFR late day into evening, with eventual
improvement to VFR.

Tuesday: Mainly VFR. Chance of MVFR to IFR with a wintry mix 
late Tuesday night. W wind gusts near 20 kt during the day.

Wednesday: Possible wintry mix early with MVFR to IFR. 
Precipitation transitions to mainly rain with MVFR to IFR 
possible before tapering off in afternoon. VFR returns at 
night. Afternoon NW wind gusts 15-20 kt.

Thursday: VFR.

Friday: VFR. W wind gusts 15-20 kt.

Detailed information, including hourly TAF wind component forecasts, 
can be found at: https:/www.weather.gov/zny/n90

&&

.MARINE...
Winds and seas gradually come down today, and the sca will
expire gradually across the waters. Winds and waves pick up
again late tngt, especially on the ocean. A sca could be needed
for very later there, transitioning into sly gales on Mon. A
watch has been issued for all ern waters as well as the ocean.
Lowest confidence across the Sound attm. The exact track of low
pres will determine the nrn extent of gales.

Winds and seas will be below advisory levels across the forecast 
waters Tuesday night through Thursday. With an increasing W/SW flow 
late Thursday night into Friday ocean seas may build to near 5 feet, 
especially for the waters east of Fire Island Inlet.

&&

.FIRE WEATHER...
An SPS has been coordinated with the state of CT and surrounding
offices for today. Strongest winds gusting up to 30 mph in the 
mrng, diminishing significantly thru the day. Min RH around 20 
this aftn.

&&

.HYDROLOGY...
No hydrologic impacts expected through the end of next week.

&&

.OKX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CT...None.
NY...None.
NJ...None.
MARINE...Gale Watch from Monday morning through Monday afternoon for 
     ANZ331-332-340-345-350-353-355.
     Small Craft Advisory until 3 PM EDT this afternoon for ANZ350-
     353.

&&

$$

SYNOPSIS...JMC/DW
NEAR TERM...JMC/JC
SHORT TERM...JMC
LONG TERM...DW
AVIATION...JM
MARINE...JMC/JC/DW
FIRE WEATHER...
HYDROLOGY...JMC/DW
