609 
FXUS61 KOKX 271935
AFDOKX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service New York NY
335 PM EDT Thu Mar 27 2025

.SYNOPSIS...
A trough of low pressure passes through tonight, followed by a cold 
front that stalls nearby during Friday before moving back north as a 
warm front Friday night into Saturday. The frontal boundary drifts
back south of the region Saturday night, before lifting north once
again Sunday night as low pressure tracks through the Great Lakes.
The associated cold front approaches Monday, moving through Monday
night into Tuesday. High pressure then builds in from the northwest
Tuesday, before another frontal system potentially impacts the region
mid next week.

&&

.NEAR TERM /UNTIL 6 AM FRIDAY MORNING/...
A weak warm front or surface trough passes trough the area tonight. 
Not much moisture with it, and with dry low levels, anything that 
falls might be just a sprinkle. Thermal profiles look too warm with 
freezing level heights too high to support flurries. Low 
temperatures ranging from the lower 40s in the city to the mid 30s 
across the northern zones.

&&

.SHORT TERM /6 AM FRIDAY MORNING THROUGH FRIDAY NIGHT/...
For Friday, a cold front dropping down from the north stalls 
somewhere across the forecast area, but possibly just north of us. 
The front then nudges northward starting late in the day or during 
Friday night as a warm front. Meanwhile, moisture streams eastward 
in the vicinity and north of this boundary. Some of this may result 
in some showers late in the day for parts of the forecast area, but 
a better overall chance happens during Friday night for the entire 
area. Temperatures will run above normal with highs in the mid 50s 
to low 60s and lows around 50 in the city with 40s elsewhere.

&&

.LONG TERM /SATURDAY THROUGH THURSDAY/...
Unsettled to start the period as a complex frontal system lingers 
nearby through early next week.

Warm front remains north of the region on Saturday, with increasing 
SW flow quickly advecting in an anomalously mild air mass and 
setting up the warmest day of the year so far. Temperatures rise 
well into the 70s generally from NYC north and west, with perhaps 
even a few lower 80s in urban NE NJ. Marine influence should limit 
max temps to the lower 70s moving east into Long Island and much of 
southern CT, and the 60s along south facing shorelines out east. The 
warmth is short-lived as NW flow aloft and mid level confluence over 
eastern Canada bring high pressure SE into northern New England and 
helps force the front back south Saturday night.

As that high passes well east, the front drifts back north as low 
pressure cuts tracks thru the Lower Great Lakes, and lifts north by 
Monday AM. Attendant cold front then approaches Monday, moving 
across the area Monday night. A mostly cloudy day should limit highs 
to the upper 50s and lower 60s to the east and mid 60s to lower 70s 
to the west. Expect numerous showers along and ahead of the fropa, 
and at least the chance for some embedded thunderstorms, especially 
west of the Hudson. Thereafter, cooling back down into the 40s and 
50s for daytime highs Tue and Wed with cold NW flow. Another frontal 
system could bring another round of rain mid next week.

&&

.AVIATION /19Z THURSDAY THROUGH TUESDAY/...
High pressure slides south of the area today. A weak cold front
moves through the area tonight.

VFR. NW winds with gusts 20-24 kt continue through 22-00z. Wind
then shifts more SW and lessen into the evening. Around midnight
winds likely increase a few knots ahead of the front. SW/W winds
remain through Friday morning.

Isolated light rain showers are possible tonight. Low confidence
in coverage and occurrence so have left out of the TAF.
Conditions are expected to remain VFR regardless.

 ...NY Metro (KEWR/KLGA/KJFK/KTEB) TAF Uncertainty... 

Gusts to 20-24kt may be more occasional today.

.OUTLOOK FOR 18Z FRIDAY THROUGH MONDAY...

Friday: VFR through the daytime hours. MVFR possible at night 
with rain showers.

Saturday: VFR through the morning, MVFR possible starting in the evening
with rain showers. SW winds G25-30kt.

Sunday: MVFR possible in rain showers. E-SE wind G15-20kt.

Monday: MVFR or lower with showers. Moderate to locally heavy
showers possible. S-SW winds G25kt, becoming NW at night. 

Tuesday: VFR. N/NW wind G25kt early.

Detailed information, including hourly TAF wind component forecasts, 
can be found at: https:/www.weather.gov/zny/n90

&&

.MARINE...
Nearshore gusts up to around 25kt still possible before sundown, 
then winds diminish into this evening before increasing overnight as 
the pressure gradient tightens in response to a trough shifting 
through the region. Not enough confidence to drop the SCA for the 
non-ocean waters for the overnight/Friday morning period, but there 
may be only low coverage where criteria is met. On the ocean, 5ft 
seas would appear to be limited east of Fire Island Inlet, but 
marginal SCA gusts anticipated west of here overnight into Friday 
morning, so no changes to the advisories on the ocean. Sub-advisory 
conditions then follow for Friday afternoon and night. 

Strengthening SW flow may bring Small Craft Advisory (SCA) 
conditions to at least the ocean waters, if not all waters, Saturday 
with winds gusting toward 25 kt. Ocean seas build above 5 ft 
Saturday and Saturday night as well, and could linger thru 
Sunday AM, especially east of Moriches Inlet. Winds lower 
Saturday night, and after a lull daytime Sunday, SCA conditions 
return Sunday night or Monday as a frontal boundary lifts north,
with gusts 25 to 30 kt possible on all waters. Gales possible 
Monday on the ocean. Winds and seas should then begin to lower 
below SCA criteria Tuesday.

&&

.FIRE WEATHER...
Special weather statements for an elevated risk of fire spread
remain in effect been issued for the rest of this afternoon 
with gusty winds and minimum RH values around 20%. The 
statements consider meteorological, fuel, and land conditions 
and has been developed in coordination with state fire and land 
management officials.

Minimum RH values on Friday are expected to be lowest across the CT 
zones at 30-35%. Winds will however be on the lighter side by the 
time the RH drops this low in the afternoon, with maybe a gust or 
two up to 20 mph. Minimum RH values for the rest of the forecast 
area will range mostly 35-45% with gusts below 20 mph. No statements 
anticipated across the entire forecast area at this time.

&&

.HYDROLOGY...

No hydrologic impacts expected through the middle of next week.

&&

.OKX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CT...None.
NY...None.
NJ...None.
MARINE...Small Craft Advisory from 3 AM to 10 AM EDT Friday for ANZ331-
     332-340-345.
     Small Craft Advisory until noon EDT Friday for ANZ350-353.
     Small Craft Advisory from 1 AM to 10 AM EDT Friday for ANZ355.

&&

$$

SYNOPSIS...JC/DR
NEAR TERM...JC
SHORT TERM...JC
LONG TERM...DR
AVIATION...JT
MARINE...JC/DR
FIRE WEATHER...
HYDROLOGY...JC/DR
