230 
FXUS61 KOKX 292327
AFDOKX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service New York NY
727 PM EDT Thu May 29 2025

.SYNOPSIS...
Weak high pressure moves across the area the first half of the
night and then gives way to another area of low pressure over
the Mid Atlantic states. The latter of which passes to the south
and east on Friday. A much stronger low will approach from the 
southwest Friday night and then head north into New England on 
Saturday. A trailing cold front will move through Saturday 
night. High pressure will then gradually build in through the 
middle of next week.

&&

.NEAR TERM /THROUGH FRIDAY/...
The forecast is mostly on track. Only minor adjustments made
with this update.

The upper low over the Great Lakes begins to get kicked eastward
tonight as jet energy rounds the base of the low. At the same
time, a digging northern trough branch descends across eastern 
Canada. Both will interact with one another on Friday, allowing
a full latitude trough to dig southward into the Mid Atlantic 
states late Friday into Friday night. 

Before then though, weak high pressure quickly moves through the
area this evening, giving way to a weak frontal wave over the
Mid Atlantic states. Latest HRRR soundings show some drying this
evening with the potential for breaks in the cloud cover. There
is some uncertainty whether not there is enough low-level 
moisture and cooling to see the development of low stratus and 
fog for the second half of the night. For the time, will have 
the mention of some patchy fog across the area. 

The aforementioned frontal wave passes to the south Friday 
morning with a slight chance of showers, then to the east by 
afternoon. A weak surface trough or stationary front over the 
Lower Hudson valley will then be the focus for some scattered 
showers/isolated thunderstorms in the afternoon. Both instability
and shear will be weak, so nothing strong or long lasting. Rainfall
amounts are expected to be light.

Lows tonight are forecast to be in the upper 50s to lowers 60s,
a few degrees above normal. High on Friday will top out in the
70s with a few break in the cloud cover.

&&

.SHORT TERM /FRIDAY NIGHT THROUGH SATURDAY/...
A stronger frontal wave over the central Appalachians approaches
from the southwest Friday night with a period of moderate rainfall
and possibly some heavier rain in any embedded thunderstorms. 
There is some uncertainty with the low track, with a consenus 
forecast approach taking it just east of the NYC metro and 
Lower Hudson Valley. This should keep the heavier rainfall 
to the north and west of the track where there will be better 
frontogenetic forcing. System is progressive, instability is 
weak, and PW values are near normal. Thus, not looking for high
hourly rainfall rates, nor storm total rainfall values to produce
much more than minor nuisance poor, drainage flooding. Any flash
flood flooding with this system would be isolated. WPC has a 
marginal risk of excessive rainfall across the Lower Hudson 
Valley and NE NJ at this time. NBM (13Z) probabilities are 
around 50-60% across the area for seeing more than an inch of 
rainfall. Forecast storm total rainfall across the area is 
1.00-1.25" with lesser amounts across eastern LI and SE CT. 
These amounts are also over period of more than 6 hours.

Conditions dry out Saturday morning into early afternoon with 
a second wave of low pressure moving in during the afternoon/early
evening, but this is also progressive. Expect a round of moderate
showers and possibly embedded thunderstorms. Once again, neither
severe weather or flooding is forecast with this event. Lows 
Friday night will remain mild in the upper 50s to lower 60s, 
but a bit cooler in the upper 60s to lower 70s on Saturday with 
cloud cover and rain chances.

&&

.LONG TERM /SATURDAY NIGHT THROUGH THURSDAY/...
Upper trough axis and shortwave lift will maintain shower chances 
during Saturday night with a higher likelihood being east of the 
city and before midnight.

Upper troughing will remain over the Northeast into eastern Canada 
Sunday through early next week. High pressure off to our west will 
be slow to build eastward with low pressure meandering over eastern 
Canada during this time period. The forecast remains dry Sunday and 
Monday despite cyclonic flow aloft. However, multiple shortwaves 
spinning around the larger trough could introduce scattered to 
broken clouds at times both afternoons. The axis of the trough 
should shift to our east Tuesday allowing ridging to build towards 
the area into Wednesday with the continuation of dry conditions. 
Models differ somewhat regarding the position of a cutoff h5 low 
over the western Atlantic and how it weakens the upper ridging over 
the forecast area. Potential showers and thunderstorms from a cold 
front to the west may push in by the end of the day, but could be 
mitigated by the residual ridging aloft. 

Temperatures for Sunday will be below normal in the upper 60s, but 
should slowly start trending milder early next week. Highs look to 
reach the lower 70s on Monday and then should be close to normal by 
Tuesday in the middle to upper 70s. Given progged h8 temperatures, 
have blended deterministic NBM with the warmer 50th percentile for 
both Wednesday and Thursday. Areas unaffected by a sea breeze likely 
reach the 80s both days.

&&

.AVIATION /00Z FRIDAY THROUGH TUESDAY/...
A weak area of low pressure moves through tonight into Friday. A
stronger area of low pressure will impact the terminals Friday
evening through Friday night.

VFR expected for several hours this evening into tonight for the
NYC terminals and KSWF. Farther east, KHPN, KBDR, KISP and KGON
likely do not improve to VFR this evening for longer than an
hour if anything. Everywhere except KSWF will go IFR late
tonight into Friday morning with the potential for some LIFR
cigs. There will likely be some late day improvement to VFR
again Friday for the NYC terminals and KSWF. Conditions come
right back down Friday evening with moderate to locally heavy
showers. Thunder can also not be ruled out, but confidence is 
not high enough yet for the TAF. There will also be some other 
slight chances for showers, early Friday morning and then Friday
afternoon. Coverage will likely be very isolated and am not 
expecting any long duration vsby restrictions so have left out 
of the TAF.

Winds remain under 10 kt through the TAF period. S/SW tonight
and S/SE on Friday.

 ...NY Metro (KEWR/KLGA/KJFK/KTEB) TAF Uncertainty...  

Timing of lowering conditions tonight may be off by several
hours.

There are slight chances for rain Friday morning and Friday
afternoon. Coverage is expected to be isolated and not cause any
long duration vsby restrictions.

Moderate to locally heavy showers Friday evening into Friday 
night could potentially have some embedded thunder. Confidence 
is low at this time.

.OUTLOOK FOR 00Z SATURDAY THROUGH TUESDAY... 

Friday night: Moderate to locally heavy showers and possibly a 
thunderstorm. IFR likely.

Saturday: Showers and thunderstorms possible in the afternoon. SW-W
winds G15-20kt in the afternoon.

Sunday through Tuesday...VFR.

Detailed information, including hourly TAF wind component forecasts, 
can be found at: https:/www.weather.gov/zny/n90

&&

.MARINE...
SCA for seas on the ocean will come down from west to east
tonight. Thereafter, a weak gradient will reside across the
waters with sub-SCA conditions through Friday night. A building
southerly swell is forecast to bring SCA conditions to the 
ocean waters on Saturday. 

SCA conditions will continue on the ocean Sat night into Sunday, 
mainly for hazardous seas. Seas should subside below 5 ft late 
Sunday and remain below advisory thresholds through early next
week.

&&

.HYDROLOGY...
Rainfall of 1 to 1.25 inches with locally higher amounts is 
possible from NYC north/west Fri night into Sat morning as low 
pressure passes through. Hydrologic impacts so far appear to be 
limited to minor urban/poor drainage flooding. Also can't rule 
out downpours Saturday afternoon and early evening since 
thunderstorms will still be possible.

&&

.TIDES/COASTAL FLOODING...
Any additional widespread minor coastal flooding following the 
recent new moon is seeming less likely as tide values gradually 
lower and weaker southerly winds being forecast ahead of low 
pressure Friday night. However, water levels just barely 
touching minor flood benchmarks are possible in spots with the 
next two nighttime high tide cycles tonight and Fri night.

A high rip current risk continues into early this evening with SE 
swells at around 6 ft. There is a moderate risk for rip current 
development during Friday with SE swells lowering to 4 to 5 ft.

&&

.OKX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CT...None.
NY...High Risk for Rip Currents until 9 PM EDT this evening for NYZ075-
     080-081-178-179.
NJ...None.
MARINE...Small Craft Advisory until 6 AM EDT Friday for ANZ350.
     Small Craft Advisory until 2 AM EDT Friday for ANZ353.
     Small Craft Advisory until 10 PM EDT this evening for ANZ355.

&&

$$

SYNOPSIS...JC/DW
NEAR TERM...DW
SHORT TERM...DW
LONG TERM...JC
AVIATION...JT
MARINE...JC/DW
HYDROLOGY...JC/DW
TIDES/COASTAL FLOODING...
