842 
FXUS61 KOKX 250847
AFDOKX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service New York NY
447 AM EDT Sun May 25 2025

.SYNOPSIS...
Low pressure meanders near the Canadian Maritimes today, with 
high pressure attempting to build in from the west. The high 
tracks over the region by late Monday as the low exits farther out
to sea. High pressure over the region weakens by the middle of 
the week, allowing a series of weak disturbances to potentially 
impact the area.

&&

.NEAR TERM /THROUGH TONIGHT/...
Troughing remains in place over the Northeast today as the 
upper low meanders over the Canadian Maritimes. Surface high 
pressure over the Great Lakes attempts to build in from the west.

Another mostly clear morning to start the day, before cyclonic
flow and surface heating help to generate widespread cloud cover
by the afternoon. Additional shortwave energy rotating around 
the trough thru late day will maintain at least the possibility 
for a few rain showers, though coverage appears lower than on 
Saturday. Best chance looks to be in the afternoon across the 
interior, mainly north and west of NYC, but can't entirely rule
out isolated showers down to the coast. Pressure gradient a bit
more relaxed than the start of the weekend, and winds will be 
lighter as a result.

Temperatures moderate a few degrees from the start of the 
weekend, and afternoon highs range from mid 60s to around 70. A
more relaxed pressure gradient will slacken the flow from the 
previous day as well. Looking ahead, it's very possible, if not
likely, this will be the coolest day across the region for at 
least the next week as a warming pattern set ups into the start
of meteorological summer.

Any showers dissipate shortly after sunset and temperatures fall
back once again into the 40s and 50s overnight.

&&

.SHORT TERM /MONDAY THROUGH MONDAY NIGHT/...
Ridging begins to build in on Memorial Day, as surface high pressure 
centered over the Great Lakes noses into the Mid Atlantic.

Expect less in the way of shower activity relative to the rest of 
the holiday weekend, with subsidence from the ridge and lack of a 
forcing mechanism. Still can't rule out a widely spotty pop up late 
day shower, especially well inland, but not even enough at this 
point to warrant slight chance PoPs (>15%).

Additional sunshine and a bit deeper mixing on Monday yields 
slightly milder conditions, with much of the region away from 
the immediate shoreline topping out around 70, or low to mid 70s
in the urban metro and NE NJ. Light flow and dew pts in the 40s
should allow for a comfortable afternoon under a mix of sun and
clouds.

Surface high builds overhead Monday night, and skies attempt to 
clear overnight in response. This should set up one more relatively 
cool night, falling into the 40s across the interior southern CT and 
LoHud Valley, and LI Pine Barrens, with 50s elsewhere.

&&

.LONG TERM /TUESDAY THROUGH SATURDAY/...
High pres builds offshore on Tue, resulting in a return flow off the 
ocean. Could be some enhanced sea breeze action late in the day as 
the general flow couples with the sea breeze circulations. Dry wx 
fcst with shrtwv ridging across the area. Temps modified by the 
onshore flow, but close to normal nonetheless for the first time 
since the 18th.

An upr low stalled over the upr Midwest will then produce a more 
zonal flow across the cwa thru the rest of the week, ushering in a 
series of disturbances. This will produce chances for shwrs thru the 
period. Any track and timing of the rain is uncertain attm, as the 
features will be driven in part by convection from the plains to the 
Southeast. The latest GFS is actually quite dry for most of the 
week, but stuck with the NBM with the blended approach deemed the 
best for now. 

There is a chance for a more organized low and widespread rainfall 
for the weekend, but uncertainty is high this far out despite a 40 
pop from the NBM.

&&

.AVIATION /09Z SUNDAY THROUGH THURSDAY/...
Low pressure will continue to slowly track over the Canadian 
Maritimes today. High pres begins to build in tngt.

VFR. WNW winds around 10 kt early this mrng. Winds WNW-NW today
increase to 10-15 kt with gusts around 20 kt. Winds decrease 
aft 23Z and remain light thru Mon mrng.

 ...NY Metro (KEWR/KLGA/KJFK/KTEB) TAF Uncertainty...

No unscheduled amendments expected.

.OUTLOOK FOR 06Z MONDAY THROUGH THURSDAY...

Tonight: VFR.

Monday-Tuesday: VFR.

Wednesday-Thursday: MVFR possible. Chance of showers.

Detailed information, including hourly TAF wind component forecasts, 
can be found at: https:/www.weather.gov/zny/n90

&&

.MARINE...
Northwest winds gust up to around 20 kt thru today, and should 
prevail below Small Craft Advisory (SCA) criteria. Occasional 25 kt 
gusts are possible however, particularly along the near shore waters 
thru this afternoon.

Flow lightens tonight as high pressure builds in, and 
conditions remain sub SCA thru Memorial Day with winds under 10 
kt, and seas at or below 3 ft across all coastal waters.

Winds and seas then look to remain blw sca lvls Tue-Wed with 
high pres weakening over the waters. Seas on the ocean may build
to sca lvls for the rest of the week as a series of weak sys 
potentially impact the waters.

&&

.HYDROLOGY...
No hydrologic impacts expected through the week.

&&

.TIDES/COASTAL FLOODING...
There is potential for localized minor coastal flooding tngt into 
early next week. A new moon will occur Monday evening, causing areas 
to need as little as 1/4 ft of tidal departure for minor coastal 
flooding. The models are suggesting water lvls may touch minor along 
the wrn CT coast tngt, where high tide is around 11 pm. Because it 
is so mrgnl, will hold off on a statement for now. 

There is a moderate rip current risk today as winds and seas gradually
subside. Highest threat in the morning and early afternoon, with a
residual easterly swell around 2 ft with 8 sec period. Ocean seas
will have a general downward trend during the day.

Rip current risk reduces to low for Memorial Day, as swells continue 
to subside.

&&

.OKX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CT...None.
NY...None.
NJ...None.
MARINE...None.

&&

$$

SYNOPSIS...JMC/DR
NEAR TERM...DR
SHORT TERM...DR
LONG TERM...JMC
AVIATION...JMC
MARINE...JMC/DR
HYDROLOGY...JMC/DR
TIDES/COASTAL FLOODING...
