797 
FXUS61 KOKX 250712
AFDOKX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service New York NY
312 AM EDT Fri Jul 25 2025

.SYNOPSIS...
High pressure slides east this morning. A cold front will move 
through the area late this afternoon and evening. High pressure 
briefly builds into the area tonight into Saturday. A weak frontal 
system moves across the area Saturday Night into Sunday. High 
pressure returns to the area for Monday into Tuesday. A cold front 
approaches from the west on Tuesday afternoon and moves offshore 
Tuesday evening.

&&

.NEAR TERM /UNTIL 6 PM THIS EVENING/...
Key points...

* Heat headlines remain in effect. Heat indices are expected to 
  reach 100 to 105F for most of the area.

* Severe thunderstorms are possible this afternoon and evening with 
  damaging wind gusts the primary threat. There is also a low flash 
  flood threat. 

High pressure slides east today allowing a cold front to push across 
the region late in the afternoon into this evening. The two main 
issues today will be the heat and the storms associated with the 
cold frontal passage. 

The combination of temperatures in the 90s, combined with dew points 
in the lower to middle 70s will result in heat index values reaching 
100-105 for much of the area. An extreme heat warning continues for 
NE NJ with highest confidence in widespread 105F heat indices, with 
heat advisories for most of the remainder of the area with heat 
indices in the 100 to 105F range.

A cold front approaches this afternoon and moves across the area 
this evening. A prefrontal trough along with a shortwave should set 
the stage for showers and thunderstorms to develop and move across 
the area. Latest 00z CAMS are in pretty good agreement with the 
timing of the storms mainly impacting the region between 18z-00z, 
however they all seem to differ differently on the exact coverage 
and placement of the storms. The main threat with any storms today 
will be damaging wind gusts. 

In addition, any storms will be capable of producing heavy 
rainfall. PWATs are forecast to be 2.0-2.50 inches. While any storms 
that develop today should have some movement to them, can not rule 
out a low threat for flash flooding. 

&&

.SHORT TERM /6 PM THIS EVENING THROUGH SATURDAY NIGHT/...
The cold front slides SE of the region tonight with high pressure 
building back into the region. 

Dry conditions expected on Saturday, with noticeably drier and 
cooler airmass advecting in on gusty N/NE flow. Temperatures however 
will still be running slight above seasonable with highs in the mid 
to upper 80s, and heat indices similar. Near seasonable temps for 
Saturday night with increasing humidity levels as return flow 
develops.

On Sunday there is some uncertainty with the exact evolution and 
timing of a weak frontal system that may impact the area. Low 
confidence PoPs given the offshore high trending stronger.
Showers and thunderstorms are expected for the second half of 
Sunday, mainly west of NYC. Some thunderstorms will be capable of 
gusty winds and heavy rainfall. 

&&

.LONG TERM /SUNDAY THROUGH THURSDAY/...
The NBM was largely followed with this update with no major changes. 

Key Points:

*High heat and humidity will be on the increase again early to mid 
next week. Heat indices look to peak on Tuesday.

*Dry conditions expected until a frontal passage on Tuesday 
afternoon which will bring a round of showers/thunderstorms. 
Unsettled conditions continue Wednesday and Thursday, with 
thunderstorm chances each afternoon.

Good model agreement with upper ridging over the northeast to start 
the period as a ridge encompasses the eastern two-thirds of CONUS. A 
series of shortwaves moves through the ridging and will impact the 
area mid week.  

Heights build Monday and Tuesday with sfc high pressure east of the 
area.  h850 temperatures nearing 18-21C, peaking on Tuesday, will 
result in sfc max temperatures in the low to mid 90s (upper 80s at 
the coast). With dewpoints increasing to the mid 70s by Tuesday, 
heat indices in the low 100s (upper 90s coastal areas) will be 
possible. Heat headlines would be needed Monday and Tuesday, and 
possible into Wednesday should the current forecast hold.

With the cold frontal passage on Tuesday, a period of afternoon 
thunderstorms is possible. Model soundings indicate 500-1000J of 
MUCAPE though shear is weak (~20kts). CSU-MLP machine learning 
output is highlighting a 15-30% chance of severe thunderstorms from 
NYC north and west Tuesday, and details will come into more focus 
over the next few days.

&&

.AVIATION /07Z FRIDAY THROUGH TUESDAY/...
VFR through early this afternoon. MVFR vsby, or briefly lower, is 
possible in showers and thunderstorms Friday afternoon and evening. 
Strong gusty winds are possible with any thunderstorm. Have 
converted PROB30s to TEMPOs for this activity in the TAF as 
confidence in coverage and ocarinas has increased. 

Southwest winds remain light through 12Z increasing thereafter to 10-
15kts. Winds become NW behind the frontal passage in the late 
afternoon/evening. Occasional gusts up to about 20 kt are possible 
during Friday afternoon.

 ...NY Metro (KEWR/KLGA/KJFK/KTEB) TAF Uncertainty...

Occasional gusts up to 20 kt are possible Friday afternoon.

.OUTLOOK FOR 00Z SATURDAY THROUGH TUESDAY... 

Saturday: VFR.

Saturday night - Sunday: Mainly VFR. MVFR or lower possible in any 
showers or thunderstorms.

Monday: VFR.

Tuesday: Mainly VFR with possible MVFR or lower in showers and 
thunderstorms.

Detailed information, including hourly TAF wind component forecasts, 
can be found at: https:/www.weather.gov/zny/n90


&&

.MARINE...
Some occasional gusts to 25 kt are possible in a S flow on the ocean 
waters today ahead of a cold frontal passage. Showers and 
thunderstorms are expected late this afternoon and this evening 
ahead of a cold frontal passage this evening. 

A brief period of 20 kt gusts are possible in wake of cold 
frontal passage Saturday night into Sunday morning. 

Given a weak pressure gradient, winds and waves will largely stay 
below Small Craft Advisory criteria Sunday through Tuesday.  
There is a brief chance of approaching 25kts across the waters 
in the vicinity of a cold frontal passage on Tuesday 
afternoon/evening.

&&

.HYDROLOGY...
Primarily a minor urban and poor drainage flooding threat with 
thunderstorm activity this afternoon that could produce rainfall 
rates of 2+"/hr with PWATS as high as 2"-2 1/2", but will be overall 
progressive limiting duration over an one area. Based on these 
potential rainfall rates, there is a low flash flood threat with any 
localized repetitive thunderstorm activity. 

Showers and thunderstorms associated with a frontal system 
could produce locally heavy downpours on Sunday that result in 
nuisance flooding, but the overall flood threat appears low at 
this time.

&&

.TIDES/COASTAL FLOODING...
A moderate rip current risk is likely on Friday with southerly 
wind waves building to 3 to 4 ft.

&&

.CLIMATE...
Daily record high temperatures maybe be tied or broken Friday 
July 25th. Here are the current records for the day...

EWR 99/2016 
BDR 93/2001 
NYC 97/1999 
LGA 97/1999 
JFK 93/2010 
ISP 94/1987

&&

.OKX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CT...Heat Advisory from 11 AM this morning to 8 PM EDT this evening 
     for CTZ005>011.
     Air Quality Alert from 11 AM this morning to 11 PM EDT this 
     evening for CTZ009>012.
NY...Heat Advisory from 11 AM this morning to 8 PM EDT this evening 
     for NYZ067>075-078>080-176>179.
     Air Quality Alert from 11 AM this morning to 11 PM EDT this 
     evening for NYZ069>075-078>081-176>179.
NJ...Heat Advisory from 11 AM this morning to 8 PM EDT this evening 
     for NJZ002.
     Air Quality Alert from 11 AM this morning to 11 PM EDT this 
     evening for NJZ004-006-103>108.
     Extreme Heat Warning from 11 AM this morning to 8 PM EDT this 
     evening for NJZ004-006-103>108.
MARINE...None.

&&

$$

SYNOPSIS...BC/DBR
NEAR TERM...BC
SHORT TERM...BC
LONG TERM...DBR
AVIATION...DBR
MARINE...BC/DBR
HYDROLOGY...BC/DBR
TIDES/COASTAL FLOODING...
CLIMATE...
