656 
FXUS61 KOKX 061642
AFDOKX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service New York NY
1242 PM EDT Tue May 6 2025

.SYNOPSIS...
A frontal boundary remains near the region today as high pressure 
moves across the Canadian Maritimes. At the same time, a broad area 
of low pressure over the Ohio Valley will slowly track east. The 
front gradually north tonight, while low pressure approaches from 
the west. The low will then slide northeast through the area on 
Wednesday. A cold front will approach from the northwest on Thursday 
and stall nearby Thursday night as low pressure develops along it 
over the Mid Atlantic region. Low pressure will track over or just 
southeast of the region Friday into early Saturday, before heading 
up the New England coast. Another cold front will approach from the 
northwest on Sunday.

&&

.NEAR TERM /UNTIL 6 PM THIS EVENING/...
Updated forecast to lower POPs over western portions of the
forecast area, including NYC, northeast NJ, and Lower Hudson
Valley for the next couple of hours at least as the line of
showers that was stretching from the Great Lakes region to off
the Mid-Atlantic coast earlier has pushed east, along the slowly
moving cold front. Showers and thunderstorms are expected to
develop in the aforementioned areas later this afternoon into
the early evening hours as the upper low and associated cold
pool aloft slowly moves northeast. 

While the forecast calls for mostly cloudy skies, there is a 
chance that some partial clearing occurs. If it does, there may 
be a bit more instability this afternoon, especially west of the
NYC metro area. There still looks to be enough of a marine 
influence to keep it more elevated and unlikely to reach severe 
limits. With the upper low approaching, impulses will move in 
from the south with additional bands/pockets of rain. Localized 
amounts up to an inch will be possibly with potential training 
of cells in a deep-layered southerly flow. Minor nuisance 
flooding will continue to be possible. 

Temperatures will climb into the middle and upper 60s to lower
70s.

&&

.SHORT TERM /6 PM THIS EVENING THROUGH 6 PM WEDNESDAY/...
The threat of showers and possible thunder continues tonight with 
the best chances for any storms west of NYC, mainly early in the 
period where the airmass has its best chance to be unstable. POPs 
gradually decrease after midnight, but don't completely go 
away. 

As the low lifts north of the region, the trough axis moves over the 
area. As the trough moves across the area and interacts with a cold 
pool aloft plus any daytime heating should result in enough 
instability for at least some showers and thunderstorms from about 
late Wed morning into the evening. The best chances for any storms 
right now appear to be N and NW of NYC.

Lows tonight fall into the 50s. Daytime highs on Wednesday will be 
in the 60s and lower 70s.

&&

.LONG TERM /WEDNESDAY NIGHT THROUGH MONDAY/...
No significant changes in the overall forecast pattern through the 
long term and stuck fairly close to the previous forecast/NBM. 

The period starts off Wednesday night with low pressure departing 
the region with drier conditions working into the area. The drying 
conditions in the wake of this low will be short lived as the next 
cold front approaches Thursday afternoon and evening. 

Good agreement in surface cyclogenesis over the Mid Atlantic region 
along the cold front Thursday night into Friday as the digging 
northern stream trough phases with the southern jet and closes off 
at its base across the Central Appalachians. One change from the 
previous forecast is the timing, with the latest NBM speeding up the 
timing of this system. Regardless, Friday appears to be a rather wet 
day, the question is how quickly does this system depart the region. 
Will it be Friday later afternoon/evening or does is slow down 
enough that the does not depart until late Friday night into early 
Saturday. 

Either way, expect a period of moderate to locally heavy rain late 
Thursday night into Friday with deep layered lift and convergence of 
Gulf/sub-tropical moisture feed over the region as low pressure 
tracks over or near the region.

Conditions improve on Saturday in wake of the low pressure system. 
Another shortwave likely crosses the area with cold frontal passage 
Sunday afternoon/evening. Expect dry conditions to start the week as 
high pressure builds back into the area for Monday and Tuesday. 

Temperatures will be near to slightly above seasonable for Thursday, 
falling to a few to several degrees below seasonable Friday with low 
pressure affecting the area. Temperatures then moderate back to 
normal on Saturday, then above seasonable for Sunday into early next 
week.

&&

.AVIATION /18Z TUESDAY THROUGH SUNDAY/...
Frontal boundary lingers nearby through tonight, exiting north 
and east into Wednesday.

Mainly IFR or lower with stratus, areas of mist and fog, and 
periods of rain thru this afternoon. Improvement to MVFR early 
evening, toward and after 00Z. Showers anticipated to become 
much more isolated during this time as well. Returning to VFR 
overnight, though IFR cigs could redevelop in spots and fog 
potentially lingers for eastern terminals, mainly KGON, past 6Z 
Wed. Thunder has been omitted from TAFs, but can't be entirely 
ruled out this afternoon. A few showers remain possible on Wed,
but coverage and chances too low to include in TAF at this time.

Winds veer SE this afternoon, speeds around 10 kt. A few gusts 
toward 20 kt could develop, but expected to largely remain more
occasional. Flow lightens and goes southerly tonight, then SW on
Wed with speeds once again near 10 kt.

 ...NY Metro (KEWR/KLGA/KJFK/KTEB) TAF Uncertainty...

Conditions may fluctuate between LIFR and VFR at times but
largely remain IFR or LIFR thru the day. 

Isolated thunderstorm cannot be ruled out today.

Timing of improvement could be off by a couple of hours.

.OUTLOOK FOR 12Z WEDNESDAY THROUGH SATURDAY...

Wednesday: Possible IFR/MVFR early, then mainly VFR. Chance of 
showers and slight chance of thunderstorms.

Thursday: MVFR possible with a chance of showers, mainly at
night.

Friday: MVFR possible with a chance of showers. A slight chance
of thunderstorms.

Saturday: Mainly VFR, except MVFR or lower possible in slight 
chance of showers.

Detailed information, including hourly TAF wind component 
forecasts, can be found at: https:/www.weather.gov/zny/n90

&&

.MARINE...
Marginal SCA conditions for seas around 5 ft will continue through 
the day Tuesday in an E/SE flow. Latest NWPS guidance has the 5 ft 
seas continuing into tonight, so will extend the SCA to cover that 
time period. With uncertainty with just how long the 5ft seas last, 
will extend all the ocean zones through tonight, however as seas 
fall, the SCA may be able to end early. 

Marginal 4-5 ft ocean seas possible Wed into Wed night in mainly a 
residual E/SE swell, with sub SCA conditions likely on Thu under a 
weak pressure gradient.

Next potential for SCA conditions Fri/Sat on all waters with coastal 
low pressure. Low prob for gales on the ocean in E/SE flow ahead of 
the low if stronger coastal development evolves.

&&

.HYDROLOGY...
An additional 0.5-1.50 inches of rainfall will be possible with 
locally higher amounts possible in any thunderstorms or storm 
training through tonight. Generally looking at nuisance ponding 
of water with just an isolated flash flood threat. 

There is the potential for a period of moderate to locally 
heavy rain for late Thursday night and Friday time period.

&&

.OKX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CT...None.
NY...None.
NJ...None.
MARINE...Small Craft Advisory until 6 AM EDT Wednesday for ANZ350-353-
     355.

&&

$$

SYNOPSIS...BC
NEAR TERM...BC/JP
SHORT TERM...BC
LONG TERM...BC
AVIATION...BR/DR
MARINE...BC
HYDROLOGY...BC
