838 
FXUS61 KOKX 110258
AFDOKX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service New York NY
1058 PM EDT Tue Jun 10 2025

.SYNOPSIS...
A cold front moves through this evening followed by weak high 
pressure building in across the area for the rest of tonight 
through midweek into Thursday. Another cold front passes through 
Thursday night into early Friday and then becomes nearly 
stationary near the region into early next week.

&&

.NEAR TERM /UNTIL 6 AM WEDNESDAY MORNING/...
A cold front was moving slowly through the region, and at 02Z
was moving through NYC. Showers ahead of the front have just
about completely dissipated as the line moved into a more 
stable environment.

Some residual fog is possible tonight as winds remain light and
ample BL moisture from preceding rain may be difficult to scour
out until tomorrow morning. Lows tonight will be in the upper 
50s to the middle 60s.

&&

.SHORT TERM /6 AM WEDNESDAY MORNING THROUGH WEDNESDAY NIGHT/...
Skies will be generally clearing behind the departing cold 
front to the east by Wednesday morning. Upper level flow should 
become more zonal as the trough begins to pull out of the area. 
This should allow for heights to rise and surface high pressure 
to build into the area. A light westerly wind with ample 
sunshine will allow for a fairly dramatic rise in temperatures 
for much of the area. Highs tomorrow will be in the 80s 
everywhere with the warmest spots near the NYC metro rising into
the upper 80s. A drop in dew points should allow heat index 
values to remain close to the air temperature.

High pressure continues to build into the area by Wednesday 
night allowing for generally light W/SW flow through the night. 
Temperatures will remain fairly warm with low temperatures 
across the area in the middle 60s with the NYC metro possibly 
not dropping out of the low 70s.

&&

.LONG TERM /THURSDAY THROUGH TUESDAY/...
Surface high pressure will remain over there region Thursday with 
mostly dry conditions during the daytime. It will be the warmest day 
of the week with temperatures in the 80s and lower 90s. Can not rule 
out a few mid 90s across the NYC/NJ Metro areas. 

A cold front is forecast to move through the region late Thursday 
night into early Friday morning, and then become nearly stationary 
to the south of the area, through the Mid Atlantic region and the 
Delmarva, into early next week. The front may set off a few showers 
and thunderstorms as it moves across the region. Will carry just 
some slight chance POPs for now. 

Aloft, a mid and upper level trough, will remain across eastern
Canada, and into Northern New England, with a nearly zonal flow
across the Midwest, and into the Northeast, and Mid Atlantic 
region. There is some uncertainty as to how far south the 
frontal boundary will setup.

A series of waves of low pressure are expected to track along 
the frontal boundary. The main question will be exactly how far 
south the front moves. This will have an impact on how much 
precipitation we see this weekend. The NBM has chance POPS each 
period from Friday night through Tuesday, while each day should 
not be a rainout.

Also, the placement of the boundary will affect temperatures, 
mainly Saturday through the end of the forecast and is noted 
with the uncertainty in highs and low seen in the spread of 
possibilities with the NBM guidance. As a result of the 
uncertainty, and no targets of opportunity, have stayed close to
the NBM deterministic guidance.

&&

.AVIATION /03Z WEDNESDAY THROUGH SUNDAY/...
A cold front was moving slowly through the region, and at 02Z
was moving through the NYC metro area. The front is not expected
top move east of KGON until around 07Z. Weak high pressure 
builds in thereafter.

VFR, except at KGON with LIFR conditions in fog, improving to
VFR late tonight. There nay be some MVFR fog at KISP and KHPN 
overnight as winds remain light and low level moisture lingers.

Winds will be light westerly to light and variable overnight. A
west flow develops Wednesday morning, with gusts up to 20kt 
possible during the afternoon, with winds becoming SW. Gusts may
be more occasional before ending by late afternoon.


    NY Metro (KEWR/KLGA/KJFK/KTEB) TAF Uncertainty... 

A sea breeze is expected to move into KJFK early Wednesday  
afternoon, and may make it to KLGA by late afternoon. Afternoon 
gusts at KEWR, KTEB, and KLGA may be more occasional.


.OUTLOOK FOR 00Z THURSDAY THROUGH SUNDAY... 

Wednesday night - Thursday: VFR. 

Friday: VFR. MVFR possible with scattered showers and 
thunderstorms during the afternoon and into the evening.

Saturday - Sunday: MVFR cigs or lower likely with chance of 
showers.

Detailed information, including hourly TAF wind component forecasts, 
can be found at: https:/www.weather.gov/zny/n90

&&

.MARINE...
SCA conditions develop tonight into Wednesday morning over 
parts of the ocean, east of Fire Island Inlet. Otherwise sub- 
SCA conditions are forecast for rest of ocean and non-ocean 
waters for the short term through Wednesday. For Wednesday 
afternoon, all waters forecast to be below SCA.

With a weak pressure gradient force expected across the forecast 
waters, as a frontal boundary remains in the vicinity of the ocean 
waters, winds and seas are expected to remain below SCA levels
thereafter through the rest of the week.

&&

.HYDROLOGY...
No hydrologic impacts are expected through next Tuesday.

&&

.TIDES/COASTAL FLOODING...
A moderate risk for rip current development remains through this 
evening at ocean beaches.

The moderate risk for rip current development continues Wednesday 
and Thursday at ocean beaches. There may be a brief window for a
high risk at eastern Suffolk ocean beaches Wednesday morning due
to lingering 5 ft seas and southerly swells. Winds will
otherwise be S-SSW 10-15 kt on Wednesday with seas around 4 ft 
and a 7-8 second period. Winds will be a bit weaker on Thursday 
and may become SW with seas 3 to 4 ft.

&&

.OKX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CT...None.
NY...None.
NJ...None.
MARINE...Small Craft Advisory until noon EDT Wednesday for ANZ350-353.

&&

$$

SYNOPSIS...BC/MW
NEAR TERM...DS/MW
SHORT TERM...MW
LONG TERM...BC
AVIATION...MET
MARINE...BC/MW
HYDROLOGY...BC/MW
TIDES/COASTAL FLOODING...
