530 
FXUS61 KOKX 131936
AFDOKX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service New York NY
336 PM EDT Sun Jul 13 2025

.SYNOPSIS...
Offshore high pressure departs further east tonight. A cold front 
approaches the region from the west Monday, attempting to move 
through into Monday night. The frontal boundary likely remains just 
south of the area for a few days before returning north as a warm 
front sometime late in the week. This will be followed but a cold 
frontal passage late week into the weekend.

&&

.NEAR TERM /UNTIL 6 AM MONDAY MORNING/...
High pressure that has been situated off the coast of Nova Scotia 
exits further out into the Atlantic into tonight, as a cold front 
over the eastern Great Lakes gradually works east.

Some clearing has worked in along much of the coast this 
afternoon, with interior areas having a more difficult time, 
though additional stratus develops and rolls in into this 
evening. Lowered PoPs a bit across NE NJ and the LoHud Valley 
late today with any activity likely remaining off to the west 
based on current radar and latest hi res guidance. Still 
possible a shower or spotty thunderstorm drifts east into this 
evening, but coverage looks isolated at best with limited 
forcing and most, if not all, remain dry through this evening. 
Prefrontal convergence well ahead of an approaching frontal 
boundary could instigate some showers into the western Lower 
Hudson Valley overnight, but activity should weaken as it drifts
east. 

With the persistent onshore flow and saturated low levels, in 
addition to widespread stratus tonight, will have to watch for 
possible areas of patchy fog or drizzle late, mainly LI and 
southern CT.

&&

.SHORT TERM /6 AM MONDAY MORNING THROUGH MONDAY NIGHT/...
Ridge axis aloft shifts east of the region as a surface cold 
front approaches from the west Monday, moving into the region 
Monday night.

Any morning fog or drizzle comes to an end by mid morning,
and the stratus blanket attempts to break up into the afternoon.
The approach of the frontal system will eventually initiate 
showers and thunderstorms, though forcing looks relatively weak
until later in the day. Looking at the thermo environment, 
abundant moisture with a tropical like air mass in place and 
PWATs progged near 2 inches will combine with modest instability,
though denser cloud cover could hinder this. Deep layer shear 
will be lacking, with a piddly wind profile through much of the 
column. This should keep convection relatively unorganized, but 
can't rule out a few strong or damaging wind gusts with any 
thunderstorm, though the overall severe threat looks limited. 

Perhaps a bit more of a concern is the potential for higher 
rainfall rates in the moisture laden environment, particularly 
for areas west of the Hudson. Hi res guidance, including the 12Z
HREF, is signaling potential for pockets of convection producing
rates over an inch an hour, mainly over NE NJ and the LoHud 
Valley. WPC has maintained a marginal risk for excessive rainfall
locally, though introduced a slight just off to the south and 
west. More likely is the potential for minor nuisance flooding 
as the convection works through, with perhaps a localized flash 
flood threat. Timing looks mid to late afternoon for western 
areas, including NE NJ, NYC, and the LoHud Valley, before 
activity works east across southern CT and Long Island into the 
evening hours, and could linger into the overnight as the
weakening boundary slows or hangs up over the region.

&&

.LONG TERM /TUESDAY THROUGH SUNDAY/...
***Key Points***

*Potential remains for several days of high heat and humidity this 
week. The higher confidence is now for Wednesday through Friday, 
with widespread max heat index values forecast to be 95 to around 
100 (Heat Advisory criteria).

*A relatively active pattern is expected with chances for several 
days of afternoon showers and thunderstorms.

A frontal boundary will likely stall just offshore and linger near 
the area through midweek before returning north as a warm front. A 
cold front will then follow at the end of the week into the weekend. 
Aloft, the pattern stays the same through the period. Although we 
are under some high heights, we are somewhat on the eastern end of a 
broad upper level trough centered over central Canada and few 
shortwaves likely pass through.

With strong Bermuda high in place, a S/SW flow will allow plenty of 
moisture to be sent our way. This combined with above normal high 
temperatures brings some potential for a heat wave, with widespread 
heat index values of 95 to around 100 (Heat Advisory criteria) 
currently expected Wednesday through Friday. Temperatures have 
trended down a bit, especially for Tuesday which now looks like it 
may not reach Heat Advisory criteria. However, there still is 
uncertainty especially given the potential for convection and slight 
inconsistencies in a late week frontal system among the guidance. 
The NBM was followed for highs but did manually lower afternoon 
dewpoints a few degrees when better mixing is expected. This still 
gave dewpoints in the lower to mid 70s.

Too early to talk specifics when it comes to severe or flooding 
concerns with the aforementioned convection. These details will be 
ironed over the next few days. There is plenty of moisture around 
with pwats 1.50-2.00+ for much of the period so any convection that 
does develop will likely be able to produce heavy downpours. As for 
severe, while we are pretty unstable, shear looks weak through much 
of the period, with some better values as we get into late week and 
the weekend.

&&

.AVIATION /20Z SUNDAY THROUGH FRIDAY/...
Weak offshore high pressure drifts east through tonight, and 
remains offshore through Monday.

Conditions have improved to mainly VFR late this afternoon, 
with local areas of MVFR ceilings, mainly at coastal locations.
The improved conditions will be short-lived as ceilings lower 
to MVFR as stratus lingers offshore. Conditions may quickly
lower beginning 21Z/22Z and into the early evening. IFR east of
the NYC terminals is likely late tonight, with IFR conditions 
possible late tonight into early Monday morning at the NYC 
metro terminals. Conditions improve to VFR around midday or into
Monday afternoon at all the terminals. There is a lot of 
uncertainty with the timing of lowering conditions, and areal 
extent of IFR, and possible LIFR. Patchy drizzle and fog is also
possible late tonight into early Monday morning.

Light S/SE winds up to 10kt becoming generally light and 
variable tonight. A more southerly flow develops Monday with 
speeds to around 10kt.


 ...NY Metro (KEWR/KLGA/KJFK/KTEB) TAF Uncertainty...

Amendments expected due to changes in flight categories through
the forecast period with uncertainties of flight category 
changes and timing.


.OUTLOOK FOR 18Z MONDAY THROUGH FRIDAY... 

Monday afternoon: MVFR ceilings possible early afternoon, then
becoming VFR. MVFR possible in thunderstorms mid afternoon into
the evening. A chance of thunderstorms overnight. A few storms 
could produce brief heavy rainfall late Monday afternoon into 
the evening.

Tuesday-Friday: Mainly VFR. MVFR in showers or thunderstorms 
each afternoon and evening.

Detailed information, including hourly TAF wind component forecasts, 
can be found at: https:/www.weather.gov/zny/n90

&&

.MARINE...
Patchy dense fog is possible on the local coastal waters Monday
morning.

With a weak pressure gradient, winds and waves likely remain below 
Small Craft Advisory criteria through the coming weekend. However,
a relatively active pattern is expected next week with chances 
of afternoon showers and thunderstorms for several days. Winds 
and waves will be higher in any storms.

&&

.HYDROLOGY...
Showers and thunderstorms move through Monday afternoon and
evening, and could produce locally heavy downpours with rainfall
rates that briefly exceed an inch per hour. This could lead to
areas of minor, nuisance flooding, with a localized flash flood
risk, especially across urbanized NE NJ.

At this time, there are no significant flood concerns Tuesday 
through next weekend.

&&

.TIDES/COASTAL FLOODING...
For Atlantic Ocean beaches, the rip current risk today and 
Monday is moderate with an onshore flow near 10 kt, a 3 ft swell
from the southeast at a 7 to 8 sec, and added onshore swells, 
one of which is a long period swell.

&&

.OKX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CT...None.
NY...None.
NJ...None.
MARINE...None.

&&

$$

SYNOPSIS...DR/JT
NEAR TERM...DR
SHORT TERM...DR
LONG TERM...JT
AVIATION...MET
MARINE...DR/JT
HYDROLOGY...DR/JT
TIDES/COASTAL FLOODING...
