665 
FXUS61 KOKX 011759
AFDOKX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service New York NY
159 PM EDT Thu May 1 2025

.SYNOPSIS...
High pressure will shift off the New England coast this
afternoon. A warm front will then approach tonight and lifts 
through early Friday morning. A cold front will then slowly 
approach Saturday into Saturday night, with a wave of low 
pressure developing along it. This frontal system will linger 
near the area through early next week, as a cutoff upper low 
develops to the southwest.

&&

.NEAR TERM /THROUGH TONIGHT/...
Upper ridge axis shifts to the east later this afternoon into
this evening as surface high pressure drifts off Cape Cod.

Dry conditions expected thru the day. Winds veer SE into the 
afternoon as the high moves offshore, and the resultant onshore flow 
limits temperatures along the coast with SSTs still in the lower 
50s. Highs there top out in the upper 50s to middle 60s, with 
lower 70s expected away from the marine influence in the LoHud 
Valley and NE NJ.

As the high shifts farther east tonight, low pressure tracks 
into the Great Lakes with the associated warm front approaching 
the local region. This introduces increased cloud cover, along 
with the chance for showers late tonight into Friday morning. 
Can't rule out a spotty thunderstorm with this activity either
with some elevated instability evident in some BUFKIT forecast
soundings, but coverage overall appears limited, and some 
locales may not see precipitation. The front lifts through 
toward daybreak, and could see areas of fog break out in its 
wake into Friday morning as the shower activity exits.

&&

.SHORT TERM /FRIDAY THROUGH SATURDAY NIGHT/...
A more active pattern looks to develop in this period, with an 
increasing likelihood of unsettled conditions persisting thru at
least early next week.

Behind the warm fropa early Fri AM, a much warmer air mass advects 
in on deep SW flow. Any fog around in the morning burns off and S/SW 
flow and deep mixing allow temps west of the Hudson to rise into the 
80s, or a good 15 degrees above climo for early May, while coastal 
areas remain in the 60s to around 70.

As the East Coast ridging shifts farther offshore, several northern 
stream shortwaves dig a trough from the Canadian Plains into the 
Mississippi River Valley Friday into Saturday. The pre-frontal 
trough approaches western portions of the area Friday aft/eve, 
bringing the potential for scattered showers and thunderstorms, 
mainly for NYC and points N&W in a weakly forced, but marginally 
unstable/modest shear environment. A more stable airmass along the 
coast will likely have any convection dissipating as it overspreads 
the coast and encounters this environment. Conversely, could be 
dealing with stratus/fog development for southern and eastern 
coastal areas late Friday into Sat with moist onshore flow over cold 
waters (lower 50 SSTs). CSU MLP still indicates a marginal severe 
threat, which seems conditionally possible.

Perhaps a better chance for organization of scattered shower and 
thunderstorm activity ahead of the approaching cold front Saturday 
afternoon and evening for NYC and points NW once again with approach 
of northern shortwave in a marginally unstable and strong deep layer 
shear environment. Although airmass is similar on Friday to 
Saturday, potential for more in the way of convective debris on 
Saturday limiting full insolation.

Better agreement amongst global guidance relative to this time 
yesterday, with most ensemble members now signaling a cutoff low
closes off to the SW of the region this weekend thru early next
week as an omega blocking pattern develops across the Eastern 
US into Western Atlantic. The result being the aforementioned 
cold front stalling to the west of the region and strong 
Canadian maritime high to the NE leading to a persistent Atlantic
subtropical moisture flow into next week.

&&

.LONG TERM /SUNDAY THROUGH WEDNESDAY/...
The combo of a cutoff upper low developing over the Ohio Valley and 
an amplifying upper high over the western Atlantic will be the main 
drivers of sensible wx for the area. A feed of subtropical Atlantic 
moisture into the area between these two systems will keep us 
unsettled through the period and offer the likelihood of some 
periods of heavier showers, whose exact timing and rainfall amts are 
still uncertain. Latest guidance suggests best time frames for 
heavier rainfall may be Sunday night into Mon morning and more so 
Tue into Tue night. Latest ECMWF ensemble is focusing in more on 
Tue, showing higher probabilities of 1-2 inches in 24 hours in that 
time frame, and 90th percentile QPF of over 3 inches.

&&

.AVIATION /18Z THURSDAY THROUGH TUESDAY/...
High pressure north of the area will move off the coast this 
afternoon. A warm front then approaches tonight, lifting north
of the terminals Friday morning. 

VFR conditions will prevail into this evening before conditions
deteriorate with the approach of the warm front. MVFR conditions
are expected to develop around midnight at the NYC metro
terminals, followed by IFR after 06Z and LIFR possible towards
daybreak at some locations. Scattered showers are also possible
overnight ahead of the approaching front, along with an isolated
thunderstorm. VFR conditions will return between 12-15Z at the
metro terminals as the warm front pushes north. 

SE winds around 10 kt will continue through this afternoon.
Winds then diminish to around 5 kt overnight before returning
out of the S after the warm frontal passage Friday morning.


 ...NY Metro (KEWR/KLGA/KJFK/KTEB) TAF Uncertainty...

Timing of both the deterioration to sub-VFR conditions overnight
and improvement back to VFR Friday morning could be off by 1-2 
hours.


.OUTLOOK FOR 18Z FRIDAY THROUGH TUESDAY...

Friday: VFR. Showers/tstms possible in the afternoon and at 
night. S winds G15-20kt in the afternoon. 

Saturday: MVFR or lower cond possible with chance of
showers/tstms. S winds G15-20kt. 

Sunday: MVFR or lower cond possible with chance of showers/tstms. 

Monday: MVFR or lower cond possible with chance of showers/tstms.
E-NE winds G20-25kt. 

Tuesday: MVFR or lower cond possible with chance of
showers/tstms. S winds G15-20kt.

Detailed information, including hourly TAF wind component forecasts, 
can be found at: https:/www.weather.gov/zny/n90

&&

.MARINE...
Winds and seas remain low through tonight with high pressure
in close proximity to the coastal waters. 

Marginal S/SW SCA gusts possible on the ocean Fri aft/eve and then 
once again Sat aft/eve with approach of cold front. More confidence 
in ocean seas building to 5 ft during this time, lingering into 
Sunday morning based on persistent S/SW flow. 

Increasing E flow on Mon may bring minimal SCA cond to the 
ocean waters, with E winds gusting to 20-25 kt and seas building
to 5 ft.

&&

.FIRE WEATHER...
SE flow at 5 to 12 mph develops into this afternoon. RH values 
get as low as 25-35%, increasing above 40 percent along the 
coast later this afternoon with strengthening onshore flow. 
An SPS for elevated risk of fire spread has been issued for NE 
NJ zones where it will take longer for RH to rise with more of a
delay in the onshore flow. Wetting rains are possible late 
tonight into Friday.

&&

.HYDROLOGY...
There is potential for heavy rain of over 2 inches next week in
the Sunday night-Tue night time frame. Exact timing/duration of
any heavier periods of rain and exact amounts/impacts remain 
uncertain.

&&

.OKX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CT...None.
NY...None.
NJ...None.
MARINE...None.

&&

$$

SYNOPSIS...BG/DR
NEAR TERM...JE/DR
SHORT TERM...DR
LONG TERM...BG
AVIATION...FEB
MARINE...BG/DR
FIRE WEATHER...
HYDROLOGY...BG/DR
