918 
FXUS61 KOKX 020656
AFDOKX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service New York NY
156 AM EST Sun Feb 2 2025

.SYNOPSIS...
High pressure moves northeast of the region today eventually 
getting into the Gulf of Maine. The high pressure moves 
southeast of the Canadian Maritimes tonight. Meanwhile, a 
frontal system approaches from the north and west, with an 
associated warm front moving in tonight. A warm front shifts 
north of the area Monday followed by a cold front Monday night. 
High pressure returns Tuesday into Wednesday with a complex 
frontal system impacting the area Wednesday night into Thursday.
High pressure may briefly build in next Friday ahead of another
frontal system.

&&

.NEAR TERM /UNTIL 6 AM SUNDAY MORNING/...
Forecast mainly on track. Mostly clear sky conditions present
along with light winds, allowing for some very cold temperatures
with radiational cooling. High pressure moving into the region
with its center eventually getting to just north of the local
area.

&&

.SHORT TERM /6 AM THIS MORNING THROUGH 6 PM MONDAY/...
High pressure north of the region early today and associated
subsidence will allow for more sun. Winds will be light as well
at the surface. Then, flow becomes more southerly during the day
today and a frontal system approaches from the north and west.
Clouds will increase during the day, especially in the
afternoon.

The warm front with the frontal system moves in tonight.
Precipitation is expected, mainly in the form of snow but some
slight warming in the low levels late tonight may allow for more
of a rain/snow mix. Otherwise, for the interior, an all snow
event is expected, where near 1 to 2 inches of snow is forecast.
Less than 1 inch of snow is expected along the coast.

Precipitation shifts east of the region Monday morning and the
warm front will move farther northeast of the region. More low
level warm air advection on SW flow will make for warmer than
normal temperatures. A mainly dry day is expected.

&&

.LONG TERM /MONDAY NIGHT THROUGH SATURDAY/...
The large scale pattern for next week will consist of a fast zonal 
flow over the CONUS. There will be embedded shortwaves in the flow 
with the first passing Monday night into Tuesday followed by mid to 
late week. The pattern does not appear to change heading into next 
weekend.

The period starts with a warm front lifting north of the area Monday 
morning. Any light snow accumulation across the interior Sunday 
night ends before the Monday morning commute and will be followed by 
temperatures rising well into the 40s by afternoon. Some locations 
in the NYC metro could touch or slightly exceed 50 degrees. Dry 
conditions are expected Monday with a cold front passing across the 
area Monday night. Temperatures do not significantly drop behind the 
front on Tuesday as high pressure builds across the northeast. Highs 
on Tuesday remain above normal in the lower and middle 40s. 
Seasonably cold conditions return Tuesday night through Wednesday 
ahead of the shortwave for the middle of the week.

There is good agreement among the global deterministic and ensembles 
for a complex frontal system associated with the aforementioned 
shortwave to impact the area late Wednesday into Thursday. However, 
forecast confidence is low with the timing of precip and precip 
types. The previous forecast for Wednesday of a faster probability 
of precip in the quick flow aloft seems reasonable, but did not want 
to go above chance with lingering surface ridging in place. 
Probabilities are then capped at likely Wednesday night into 
Thursday due to a large spread in the evolution of the system. The 
deterministic ECMWF and UKMET have been the most consistent with a 
warm front lifting across the area Wednesday night followed by a 
deepening surface low lifting across southeast Canada on Thursday, 
sending a cold front through the area. This would put the area in 
the warm sector of the system, limiting the duration of any wintry 
precip. The ECMWF EPS and UKMET ensemble members generally agree 
with the deterministic output, although there is spread on the 
timing and intensity of the parent low. The GFS deterministic and 
many of its ensemble members indicate a much weaker parent low and 
potential of a secondary low developing near or south of Long 
Island. This could keep the region colder with wintry precip lasting 
longer into Thursday. The CMC is in between these scenarios with the 
parent low moving over the northeast Wednesday night into Thursday 
allowing for enough warm air aloft to change any wintry mix 
Wednesday night to mainly rain on Thursday. 

Have continued with the theme from the previous forecast for now 
with potential of some light snow Wednesday afternoon and then a 
transition to a wintry mix Wednesday night to mainly plain rain on 
Thursday. This agrees most with the recent model consensus. In this 
scenario, the interior would take the longest to become plain rain 
compared to the coast which could occur as early as overnight 
Wednesday. However, it is still too early for any specifics with 
impacts and amounts. The system should pull away from the area 
Thursday night with high pressure briefly returning to end the week. 
The high quickly gives way to the potential of another frontal 
system next weekend.

&&

.AVIATION /07Z SUNDAY THROUGH THURSDAY/...
High pressure over the area through Sunday morning will give way to 
low pressure on Sunday. The low will pass through Sunday night.

VFR through at least early afternoon. Clouds gradually lower and 
thicken, with MVFR cigs moving into the area around 22Z-24Z, 
possibly earlier. Precip should hold off until after 00Z except at 
KSWF where it could begin at 22Z. After 00Z, a period of light snow 
or a snow/rain mix will be possible. 

N winds 5-10 kt continue to gradually diminish overnight and become 
NE. Winds then become E then SE daytime Sunday. 

  ...NY Metro (KEWR/KLGA/KJFK/KTEB) TAF Uncertainty...

Uncertainty in timing of MVFR cigs. Timing could be as early as 18Z-
20Z. 

.OUTLOOK FOR 06Z MONDAY THROUGH THURSDAY... 

Late tonight: Chance of MVFR or lower conditions at night in 
snow and/or rain. 

Monday: Mainly VFR. 

Tuesday: VFR. NW winds G20kt late morning/afternoon. 

Wednesday: Chance of light snow with MVFR or lower cond mainly in 
the afternoon. 

Wednesday night and Thursday: MVFR or lower conditions likely. 
Precip type snow initially, changing to a wintry mix in the 
evening, then to rain at the NYC metro/Long Island terminals 
late through Thursday. 

Detailed information, including hourly TAF wind component forecasts, 
can be found at: https:/www.weather.gov/zny/n90

&&

.MARINE...
SCA just remains for the ocean between Fire Island Inlet and
Montauk Point, mainly due to higher seas. This SCA expires at 
6AM EST this morning. Otherwise, sub-SCA conditions are expected
for the forecast waters through Monday.

Conditions will largely remain below SCA levels on the waters Monday 
through Wednesday with just marginal SCA gusts possible on the ocean 
Monday night into Wednesday. The next chance for SCA conditions 
appears to be Thursday with a complex frontal system impacting the 
waters.

&&

.HYDROLOGY...
There are no hydrologic concerns thru next week.

&&

.OKX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CT...None.
NY...None.
NJ...None.
MARINE...Small Craft Advisory until 6 AM EST early this morning for 
     ANZ350-353.

&&

$$

SYNOPSIS...JMC/DS
NEAR TERM...BC/JMC/JM/DS
SHORT TERM...JMC/JM
LONG TERM...DS
AVIATION...BC/BG
MARINE...JMC/JM/DS
HYDROLOGY...JMC/DS
