914 
FXUS61 KOKX 062044
AFDOKX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service New York NY
444 PM EDT Fri Jun 6 2025

.SYNOPSIS...
A cold front slowly approaches the area tonight before passing 
through Saturday evening. Weak high pressure then briefly follows
for Sunday followed by an area of low pressure passing to the 
south and east Sunday night into Monday. A slow moving frontal 
system will then work across the area Tuesday into early Wednesday.
High pressure returns later in the day Wednesday and remains near
the region through Friday.

&&

.NEAR TERM /UNTIL 6 AM SATURDAY MORNING/...
Scattered showers and thunderstorms remain possible over the western 
and northern portions of the area this afternoon and early this 
evening. A disorganized line of showers and thunderstorms over 
Eastern PA is slowly making its way into the area this afternoon but 
given the lack of a primary forcing mechanism and a general lack of 
shear, thunderstorms are expected to be more pulse-like and short 
lasting. Given the ample moisture, any thunderstorm can produce 
locally heavy rainfall with localized hydrologic concerns possible 
in any area that sees a slow moving or training storms. Any storm 
that develops also has the potential to produce locally gusty winds 
with some dry air available in the mid-levels.

As storms move closer to the coast through evening they're expected 
to weaken given that low levels are more heavily influenced by the 
marine layer courtesy of the seabreeze. Lack of daytime heating 
after sunset should also result in a rapid weakening of any remaining 
storms by 8PM. 

Residual showers remain possible through the night as the convective 
debris moves eastward. Some CAMs indicate that a redevelopment 
of some showers and possibly an isolated storm is possible for 
eastern coastal areas as a weak surface low moves by late 
tonight, but fairly uncertain in that occurrence. Left chance 
PoPs to indicate the potential for some showers tonight. Lows 
tonight will be in the 60s.

Ample low level moisture will also bring the possibility of low 
stratus or fog development, mainly for the coast.

&&

.SHORT TERM /6 AM SATURDAY MORNING THROUGH SATURDAY NIGHT/...
The cold front continues to make its way into the area by Saturday 
morning, though ample cloud cover is expected to limit the amount of 
instability that develops on Saturday. Scattered showers remain 
possible Saturday morning which may expand and grow upscale into the 
thunderstorms into the late morning and afternoon. Coverage should 
be more widespread than Friday given the proximity of the forcing 
despite less instability. Any hydrologic concerns should be fairly 
localized as well with storms possibly producing rainfall rates on 
the order of 1" per hour. Highs on Saturday will be in the middle to 
upper 70s.

Showers and storms move eastward off the coast by evening while 
dissipating. The cold front will slowly make its way through the 
area so that residual showers are possible Saturday evening and 
night, mainly before midnight. Lows will be in the upper 50s to 
middle 60s.

&&

.LONG TERM /SUNDAY THROUGH FRIDAY/...
Overall, not seeing a whole lot change in the extended period 
with a broad upper trough extending from the Upper Midwest to 
the East Coast. Shortwave ridging embedded within the mean upper
flow will move through the area on Sunday with weak high 
pressure at the surface. The trend supports some sun the first 
half of the day with mid and high level clouds streaming in from
the SW due to large scale warm advection. Blended in some 
CONSALL with the NBM to show this. 12Z guidance is also 
supporting this trend. 

As the upper low/trough descends across the Upper Midwest and
Great Lakes Sunday night into Monday, the backing upper flow 
will steer a weak wave of low pressure along the Mid Atlantic 
coast to the south and east of the area. For the time, there is 
a chance of rain Sunday into Monday, highest at night. There 
remains some uncertainty with the low track with the ECMWF 
showing some convection to the north of the low track across the
area. This looks to be more a result of the large scale warm 
advection ahead of the digging upper trough. In addition, the 
low itself could maintain enough low-level ridging across the 
northeast to limit rain chances. Sunday could very well be dry. 
Behind the low, Monday is also looking mainly dry with chances 
of showers/embedded thunder increasing Monday night into Tuesday
as a frontal system approaches from the southwest. While the 
deep-layered SW flow and wind shear increases across the area, 
an onshore E/SE flow ahead of the warm front keeps the low- 
levels stable with any instability elevated initially. Whether 
or not the area can warm sector and destabilize ahead of the 
cold front Tuesday afternoon/evening remains to be seen. The 
best chance for rain will be Tuesday into Tuesday evening. The
cold front passes through Tuesday night.

The upper trough lifts out Wednesday with warming heights aloft
and high pressure for the end of the week. 

Sunday through Tuesday will mainly feature weak onshore flow, 
intervals of clouds, and rain chances. This will keep daytime 
highs mainly in the 70s with lows warming into the lower 60s 
during this time. Humidity will be on the rise as well. 
Temperatures will warm Wednesday through Friday with a W/SW flow
and building heights aloft.

&&

.AVIATION /21Z FRIDAY THROUGH WEDNESDAY/...
A frontal boundary remains near the area through the TAF period.

VFR this afternoon and much of the night outside of any showers and 
thunderstorms. There is a chance for showers and thunderstorms which 
could produce MVFR or lower conditions this afternoon and evening. 
The most likely terminal that receives a thunderstorm this afternoon 
would be KSWF. Will also have to watch thunderstorms over north 
central NJ to see if they make their way into the NJ metro terminals 
later this afternoon. 

Forecast guidance also indicating MVFR vsbys and IFR cigs developing 
overnight. Any development should occur after 06z.
There is a little concern that the guidance may be a bit too 
aggressive, but more for the metro terminals and points north and 
west. Chances are increasing for IFR conditions for coastal 
terminals such as KISP, KBDR, and KGON. These areas are where NBM 
probabilities are highest for IFR conditions. Additionally, KFOK 
reported BKN005 briefly earlier this afternoon, so these conditions 
are out there. 

Light SE-SSW winds should turn more to the S to SSW this afternoon 
around 10 kt or less. Occasional gusts between 15 to 20 kt are 
possible. Winds at KEWR may remain more E than SE until this 
evening. Winds become light tonight and early Saturday morning. 
Winds Saturday morning should shift more to the SW then W by late 
morning as the cold front slowly makes some headway through 
terminals. 

 ...NY Metro (KEWR/KLGA/KJFK/KTEB) TAF Uncertainty...

Amendments possible for timing of shower/thunderstorm potential this 
evening.

IFR conditions possible late tonight, Hughes chances for KJFK, 
lowest for KEWR and KTEB.

.OUTLOOK FOR 18Z SATURDAY THROUGH WEDNESDAY... 

Saturday: MVFR/IFR and showers possible. Chance of a thunderstorms 
in the afternoon.

Sunday: VFR daytime. Chance of MVFR and showers at night.

Monday: VFR. Slight chance of showers in the early morning, then 
again late at night. 

Tuesday: MVFR or lower possible with chance of showers in the 
morning, then a chance of showers and thunderstorms in the afternoon 
and evening.

Detailed information, including hourly TAF wind component forecasts, 
can be found at: https:/www.weather.gov/zny/n90

&&

.MARINE...
Generally sub-SCA conditions are expected. Wave heights are expected 
to slightly increase late tonight and into Saturday where wave 
heights near 5 feet will be possible on the ocean zones. If 
confidence in 5 foot wave heights increases, a SCA may be needed on 
the ocean zones Saturday. 

Thereafter, expect sub-advisory conditions through Tuesday. Waves of
low pressure passing to the south and a southerly swell will keep
seas on the ocean 3 to 4 ft. Chances increase for marginal SCA 
conditions for seas around 5 ft Tuesday night into Wednesday. 
Seas should then fall below SCA conditions on Thursday.

&&

.HYDROLOGY...
Rain amounts of a half inch to inch are possible this afternoon and 
evening today through Saturday afternoon, but mainly from around the 
city to points north and west. The higher amounts will more likely 
occur over the Lower Hudson Valley. While widespread hydrologic 
issues aren't expected, localized urban or street flooding is 
possible. 

No widespread hydrologic impacts otherwise for Saturday night through 
Monday. 

Showers and thunderstorms Tuesday into Tuesday night may produce at 
least minor nuisance flooding. Low confidence at this time regarding 
potential impacts this far ahead in time.

&&

.TIDES/COASTAL FLOODING...
A building SSE swell will increase to 5 ft 8-9S on Saturday.
This result in 3 to 5 ft breakers in the surf zone, likely 
producing a high rip current risk. Thus, a High Rip Current 
Risk has been issued for all locations along the oceanfront.

Swells diminish some on Sunday. A moderate rip current risk is
forecast at this time.

&&

.OKX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CT...Air Quality Alert until 11 PM EDT this evening for CTZ005-009.
NY...High Risk for Rip Currents from Saturday morning through Saturday 
     evening for NYZ075-080-081-178-179.
NJ...None.
MARINE...None.

&&

$$

SYNOPSIS...DW/MW
NEAR TERM...MW
SHORT TERM...MW
LONG TERM...DW
AVIATION...JP
MARINE...DW/MW
HYDROLOGY...DW/MW
TIDES/COASTAL FLOODING...
