648 
FXUS61 KOKX 281451
AFDOKX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service New York NY
1051 AM EDT Sat Jun 28 2025

.SYNOPSIS...
A warm front lifts north through the area today, followed by a cold 
frontal passage late tonight. High pressure will then be in place
for Sunday. The front returns north as a warm front Monday, 
followed by a cold frontal passage late Tuesday. Weak high 
pressure briefly takes control on Wednesday. A weak cold front 
swings through Thursday, followed by high pressure late in the 
week.

&&

.NEAR TERM /THROUGH TONIGHT/...
Showers head of a warm front have pushed east of the area this 
morning. 

Main concerns for today will increasing heat indices in the 
afternoon as well as potential for an isolated severe 
thunderstorm in the late afternoon and early evening.

The warm front will slowly lift north across the area through 
early this afternoon with gradually clearing and warmer, more 
humid conditions developing. 

Temperatures will warm fairly significantly compared to the 
last few days. Afternoon highs should reach the low 80s across 
Long Island and southern Connecticut due to onshore flow 
influence. However, the NYC metro, NE NJ, and Lower Hudson 
Valley should rise into the middle and upper 80s. Dew points 
increase into the lower 70s yielding max heat indices in urban 
NE NJ in the mid to upper 90s with around 90 away from the coast
and influence of the marine layer.

Potential for convection looks to more toward this evening and
possibly not getting to coastal locations until 10 pm and even
then it is not high confidence forecast. Forecast soundings 
indicate capping around 5 kft into the afternoon and there may 
be a weak middle level cap/warm air to limit convective 
development. Heights falls are subtle. The main forcing will 
come from surface convergence and some lift from weak energy 
aloft. These features should be enough to allow convection to 
develop in an environment with about 1000 J/kg of MLCAPE and 
about 25 kt of 0-6 km unidirectional shear. The stronger 
flow/shear looks to reside northeast of the area and greater 
instability likely remains across the Middle Atlantic. CAMs have
signaled potential of a fairly progressive broken line of 
convection developing late in the day and moving into the area 
in the evening. As the line encounters the marine environment, 
the line should weaken as it encounters more stable air across 
Long Island and Connecticut towards or just after sunset. SPC 
has maintained a marginal risk for a severe thunderstorm west of
Long Island and Connecticut. The main concern is from damaging 
wind gusts. 

Locally heavy downpours are possible as PWATs increase to 
around 1.80 in. However, the progressive nature of the system 
will limit duration of heavy rain and limit the overall flood 
threat. Minor urban and poor drainage flooding is possible. The 
front and shortwave push east of the area late tonight into 
early Sunday morning.

&&

.SHORT TERM /SUNDAY THROUGH MONDAY NIGHT/...
High pressure builds in behind the cold front on Sunday, but the 
front stalls not too far to our south. This should be enough to
allow some drier air to move into the area. The building high 
pressure and lingering troughing just to our east sets the stage
for a predominately westerly flow on Sunday. This should hold 
off sea breezes until potentially late in the day. Guidance has 
trended warmer on Sunday with highs now in the middle to upper 
80s. Heat indices look to remain near the actual air temperature
as dew points should mix out into the lower 60s due to the 
westerly flow.

It should be a mostly sunny day anyway, with maybe some cirrus 
around. 850mb temps progged at 17- 18C along with a westerly 
flow should allow for low 90s in parts of NYC and the urban 
corridor of NE NJ and 85-90 for most other locations. Heat index
values will however be very close to ambient temperatures as 
dewpoints through the top of the boundary layer are low enough 
for surface dewpoints to mix out fairly easily during the 
afternoon.

Dry for Sunday night and Monday morning, then the stalled boundary 
to our south pushes north as a weak warm front and moves through 
here mainly during the afternoon hours. There could be a shower/tstm 
mainly west of the Hudson River by the end of the day as shortwave 
lift approaches, but probabilities look to be limited by only modest 
CAPE and some capping in the mid levels. A better chance of showers 
and perhaps a thunderstorm arrives Monday night with stronger lift 
aloft.

NBM looked good for the most part regarding high temperatures for 
Monday, but a few minor local adjustments were made. Higher 
dewpoints within the boundary layer along with a southerly surface 
flow will make it tougher for surface dewpoints to mix out this 
time. Advisory thresholds for heat are however not expected to be 
reached.

&&

.LONG TERM /TUESDAY THROUGH FRIDAY/...
Key messages:

* Seasonably warm and humid through Thursday

* Less humid towards the 4th of July

A typical summer air mass will be in places during the period. A 
series of cold fronts are progged to swing through, most noticeably 
to begin the period later Tuesday, with another cold front later 
Thursday or Thursday night.

The first of these cold fronts will bring the region a chance of 
showers and thunderstorms late Tuesday and Tuesday evening. Due to 
large scale trough swinging through have gone likely PoPs for a good 
portion of the region late Tuesday. Followed the NBM closely here 
with just minor adjustments. Have gone solid chance thunder due to 
forecasted height falls and good agreement on trough and frontal 
timing. Should be in-between frontal boundaries and any shortwave 
features on Wednesday, so despite high pressure it should remain 
primarily dry. Another cold front approaches during Thursday, but at 
this time NWP is not indicating as much dynamics and frontal forcing 
with this boundary. It appears that this cold front will serve 
mainly to lower humidity levels late in the week towards the 4th of 
July holiday with only a slight chance of showers / thunderstorms 
late Thursday and Thursday evening.

Overall stayed very close to NBM guidance with only slight 
adjustments overall with PoP for the second half of Tuesday and 
Thursday.

&&

.AVIATION /15Z SATURDAY THROUGH WEDNESDAY/...
A warm front moves through late this morning.

Mainly IFR this morning, with some localized LIFR at a few 
terminals. Improvement back to VFR is forecast later this 
afternoon, with only MVFR and IFR for KGON. Improvement to VFR 
for KISP and KBDR this afternoon may be brief as MVFR and IFR 
return into Saturday evening. For KGON and possibly KISP, low 
stratus could return but otherwise for all terminals there is a 
chance for showers and thunderstorms which could bring MVFR to 
IFR conditions back for this evening. Relatively higher chances
of thunder at KSWF so tempo group for that terminal as opposed 
to PROB30 for the others. Sub VFR returns late tonight (mainly 
after 5-6z), especially for the more eastern terminals with low 
stratus and patchy fog.

Regarding winds, it will be an overall east to southeast flow around 
5 to 10 kt for early this morning. The winds then become more SE 
later today, and eventually become more S late this afternoon and 
evening. No significant changes expected in wind speeds, except 
within any thunderstorms this evening which could bring a sudden 
shift to a more westerly direction and higher gusts.

 ...NY Metro (KEWR/KLGA/KJFK/KTEB) TAF Uncertainty...

Amendments remain likely for some fluctuation between flight 
categories.

Amendments also likely to refine the timing and probability of 
thunderstorms for later in the TAF period.


.OUTLOOK FOR 12Z SUNDAY THROUGH WEDNESDAY... 

Sunday: Some sub VFR early for eastern most terminals, otherwise 
mainly VFR.

Monday: VFR during the day. A chance of showers and thunderstorms at 
night. MVFR or lower possible at night.

Tuesday: Showers and thunderstorms with MVFR or lower possible, 
especially afternoon and evening. SW wind gusts 15-20 kt day into 
early eve.

Wednesday: Mainly VFR.

Detailed information, including hourly TAF wind component forecasts,
can be found at: https:/www.weather.gov/zny/n90

&&

.MARINE...
Sub-SCA conditions are expected through early Tuesday. Wind gusts 
and waves should start to approach SCA conditions for the 
central and eastern ocean waters Tuesday afternoon, with small 
craft conditions likely Tuesday night into early Wednesday in 
response to a cold front. Thereafter, sub-SCA conditions return 
into mid and late week.

&&

.HYDROLOGY...
No significant hydrologic concerns are anticipated through next 
week. Locally heavy downpours will be quick moving late today into 
this evening with only minor nuisance flooding expected.

&&

.TIDES/COASTAL FLOODING...
There is a moderate risk of rip current development across the ocean 
beaches today and Sunday.

&&

.OKX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CT...None.
NY...None.
NJ...None.
MARINE...None.

&&

$$

SYNOPSIS...JC/JE
NEAR TERM...JC
SHORT TERM...JC
LONG TERM...JC
AVIATION...JT
MARINE...JC/JE
HYDROLOGY...JC/JE
TIDES/COASTAL FLOODING...
