726 
FXUS61 KOKX 210533
AFDOKX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service New York NY
133 AM EDT Wed May 21 2025

.SYNOPSIS...
As high pressure noses down from the north, a back door cold 
front will move through from the east tonight. An expansive low 
pressure system will then approach from the west on Wednesday, 
with a secondary low developing off the southern Mid Atlantic 
coast Wednesday night. This second low will then pass south and
east of Long Island into New England Thursday into Thursday 
night. The low will remain over the Northeast Friday and
Saturday before slowly moving toward the Canadian Maritimes on
Sunday. High pressure may return early next week.

&&

.NEAR TERM /UNTIL 6 AM THIS MORNING/...
A back door cold front about to move into far eastern LI and SE
CT will track east to west across the area overnight with winds
becoming easterly and gradually strengthening. Low-level clouds
will also work in from the east in tandem with the boundary, 
while mid and high level clouds associated with low pressure to 
the southwest gradually move eastward. Precip with the low to 
the west unlikely to make it into the area tonight, but a few 
sprinkles are possible with the back door front as it moves 
westward. 

Based on latest temperature trends and increasing cloud cover,
bumped up lows a bit overnight, ranging from the upper 40s to
lower 50s, warmest along the coast.

&&

.SHORT TERM /6 AM THIS MORNING THROUGH THURSDAY NIGHT/...
Rain may be slow to enter the area on Wed especially out east with
upper level ridging only starting to move east, but should make
it into the western half of the CWA by afternoon and then
eastern sections by late afternoon or evening as the ridge moves
E and a lead mid level shortwave trough approaches. 

Periods of rain expected throughout from Wed night into Thu, 
with the heavier QPF mainly from late Wed night into Thu 
morning as an easterly LLJ transports Atlantic moisture into the
area ahead of the approaching coastal low, and as a stronger 
mid level shortwave trough approaches from the west. As the low 
pulls east Thu night precip should become light and more 
intermittent/showery. 

High temps both Wed/Thu should remain in the 50s. Lows Wed night
will be 45-50 inland and in the lower 50s along the coast, and
in the 40s throughout Thu night with some CAA on N flow on the
back side of the low as it passes to the east and heads up 
toward the New England coast.

&&

.LONG TERM /FRIDAY THROUGH TUESDAY/...
Key Points: 

*Unsettled conditions will continue Friday with cool temperatures 
and scattered showers possible.

*Temperatures start to trend warmer Saturday and especially Sunday, 
but will remain below normal for this time of year. A shower is 
possible on Saturday.

*Mainly dry conditions are currently expected on Memorial Day with 
temperatures slightly below normal in the upper 60s and low 70s. 

Anomalous upper low and associated trough will slowly move across 
the area Friday through Saturday. The upper low slowly shifts 
towards the Canadian Maritimes Sunday and pushes further east next 
Monday. 

The proximity of the upper low and associated surface low Friday 
will bring a continuation of mostly cloudy and cool conditions.
The cold pocket aloft and any surface heating should lead to the 
development of scattered showers. This potential may continue into 
Friday night as the upper trough axis starts to slide east of the 
area. Cyclonic flow will continue aloft on Saturday with an isolated 
shower possible. Skies will likely remain partly sunny to mostly 
cloudy due to the lingering cold pocket aloft. Highs on Friday will 
only reach the upper 50s and low 60s. Highs on Saturday will start 
to warm a bit, but still remain below normal in the lower to middle 
60s. 

Improving conditions continue on Sunday with low pressure slowly 
pushing into the Canadian Maritimes. Cyclonic flow lingers aloft, 
but should see less cloud cover versus Saturday allowing 
temperatures to push into the upper 60s and potentially low 70s in 
the usual warmer locations. Some guidance is hinting at some energy 
rotating around the low to our west, but think the atmosphere will 
be dry enough to suppress any shower development. 

The evolution of the large scale pattern is much less certain 
heading into next Tuesday, but there are hints of another trough 
developing over the eastern US. Followed the latest model consensus 
(NBM) which is currently keeping conditions mainly dry on Memorial 
day as high pressure returns. The next chance of showers may occur 
on Tuesday, but this will be dependent on the potential evolution of 
another upper trough. Highs will be in the upper 60s and lower 70s, 
slightly below normal for the last week of May.

&&

.AVIATION /06Z WEDNESDAY THROUGH SUNDAY/...
High pressure remains over New England and into Long Island 
overnight, and then gradually gives way to low pressure 
approaching from the southwest on Wednesday.

MVFR to the east of the NYC terminals, with VFR, becoming MVFR
at the NYC terminals and west 08Z to 09Z. KGON may not see 
MVFR ceilings persist overnight as it resides closer to some 
low-level dry air associated with the surface high. Rain begins
to move slowly into the terminals around 14Z west and 16Z east,
with KGON holding off possibly as late as 19Z or late into the
afternoon. Widespread IFR conditions likely hold off until 
Wednesday night, but there could be some pockets before then, 
especially across the Lower Hudson Valley.

Light E winds overnight will gradually strengthen Wednesday
morning, increasing to 10-15kt, with G15-20kt developing during
the afternoon. Winds gradually back to the NE late Wednesday
night.

  ...NY Metro (KEWR/KLGA/KJFK/KTEB) TAF Uncertainty...

Timing of the rain may vary by 1-2 hours. Pockets of IFR 
possible Wednesday afternoon.

.OUTLOOK FOR 06Z THURSDAY THROUGH SUNDAY...

Late Wednesday Night-Thursday: IFR, possibly MVFR at times, with
periods of rain. E wind gusts 20-25kt, mainly at the coastal 
terminals. Winds diminishing and veering to the N/NE Thursday 
afternoon/night.

Friday: MVFR or lower with a chance of showers. Light/VRB winds
becoming W.

Saturday: Chance of MVFR in showers. WNW flow gusting 20-25kt.

Sunday: VFR.

Detailed information, including hourly TAF wind component
forecasts, can be found at: https:/www.weather.gov/zny/n90

&&

.MARINE...
Gale watch remains in effect for the ocean E of Fire Island 
Inlet for late Wed night into Thu morning. As low pressure 
passes to the south and then east during this time, E winds 
should ramp up, with gusts to 35-40 kt possible during this 
time. On the remaining waters, SCA in effect, beginning 11 AM 
Wed for the ocean W of Fire Island Inlet, and for Wed night into
Thu for all but western Long Island Sound, with gusts 25-30 kt.
Seas build to 6-10 ft on the ocean during this time and also 
4-6 ft on easternmost Long Island Sound. 

By Thu evening winds back northerly and diminish, but seas will
still be as high as 6-8 ft on the ocean and 5 ft on the ernmost
Sound, and should gradually diminish to 4-6 ft and 3-4 ft
respectively. 

SCA conditions due to lingering 5 ft ocean seas will likely be 
ongoing on Friday. Seas should subside below 5 ft Friday night.
There is a chance wind gusts could approach 25 kt on Saturday. 
Otherwise, conditions will remain below SCA levels Saturday and 
Sunday.

&&

.HYDROLOGY...
Rainfall from Wed into Thu night will range from 1-1.25 inches
for most areas, with higher amts of 1.50-1.75 inches across ern
Long Island and SE CT. Rainfall will be light to moderate, with
rates not expected to exceed 1/2 inch per hour. At worst only
nuisance impacts expected mainly from late Wed night into Thu
morning.

&&

.TIDES/COASTAL FLOODING...
A strengthening/persistent E-NE flow Wednesday through Thursday
may result in minor coastal flooding mid to late week. Water 
levels should remain below minor coastal flood benchmarks during
times of high tide Wed into Thu morning, but a round of more
widespread minor flooding is possible with the high tide late 
Thu afternoon into Thu evening, with tidal departures mostly 1.5
to 2.0 ft and locally as high as 2.0 to 2.5 ft out east. These
departures are actually lower than in some previous forecasts, 
as it appears winds may start to back N and diminish leading 
into this high tide cycle.

&&

.OKX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CT...None.
NY...None.
NJ...None.
MARINE...Small Craft Advisory from midnight tonight to 6 PM EDT 
     Thursday for ANZ331-332-340.
     Small Craft Advisory from 6 PM this evening to 6 AM EDT 
     Thursday for ANZ338.
     Small Craft Advisory from midnight tonight to noon EDT 
     Thursday for ANZ345.
     Small Craft Advisory from 11 AM this morning to midnight EDT 
     tonight for ANZ350-353.
     Gale Watch from late tonight through Thursday morning for 
     ANZ350-353.
     Small Craft Advisory from 11 AM this morning to noon EDT 
     Thursday for ANZ355.

&&

$$

SYNOPSIS...BG/DS
NEAR TERM...BG/DS/DW
SHORT TERM...BG
LONG TERM...DS
AVIATION...MET
MARINE...BG/DS
HYDROLOGY...BG/DS
TIDES/COASTAL FLOODING...
