874 
FXUS61 KOKX 220014
AFDOKX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service New York NY
814 PM EDT Fri Mar 21 2025

.SYNOPSIS...
The high pressure ridge continues building in tonight. A cold 
front will move through Saturday evening. High pressure returns 
briefly Sunday before another frontal system impacts the area 
Sunday night through Monday evening. Weak high pressure once again
returns briefly Monday night into Tuesday before another weak low
passes to the south of the region Tuesday night into Wednesday.
High pressure builds in for Thursday and Friday.

&&

.NEAR TERM /UNTIL 6 AM SATURDAY MORNING/...
Clouds have moved east of the region as seen on the visibility
satellite imagery, as low pressure continues to track east.
Updated cloud cover this evening, and minor changes to the
winds, temperatures, and dew points for current conditions.

High pressure continues to move in tonight. Winds become light 
and with mostly clear sky conditions, radiational cooling will 
be optimized. This should allow for a vast range in low 
temperatures from the lower 40s within NYC to mid 20s over parts
of the rural areas, including the Pine Barrens of Long Island.

&&

.SHORT TERM /6 AM SATURDAY MORNING THROUGH SATURDAY NIGHT/...
High pressure moves offshore Saturday. A cold front will be
approaching from the west. Light surface winds with variable
direction become more SW and increase in the afternoon with
gusts developing as well.

Ahead of the cold front, a few rain showers could develop across
the region. Went a little above NBM with POPs after seeing
several mesoscale models depicting discrete echoes of
reflectivity, representing small areas of rain showers
traversing the area Saturday. The rain shower timing will be
mid Saturday afternoon into Saturday evening. 

The abundance of clouds will limit high temperatures despite low
level warm air advection. Used a MAV/MET blend, manually
increased a degree for the interior. The high temperature
forecast ranges from the lower 50s to near 60, warmest across
parts of interior and NE NJ and coolest along the immediate
coast. The immediate coast will have more onshore and maritime
influence.

For Saturday night, the cold front moves east of the region, and
winds will eventually become more NW. Cold air advection will
occur in the low levels and allow for more mixed boundary layer.
The gusty winds will allow for less vast range of low
temperatures, only ranging from the lower 30s across the coast
to low to mid 20s far north and west of NYC.

A note about wind gusts. Models have recently underestimated
wind gusts and from BUFKIT soundings, peak gusts Saturday
afternoon through Saturday will likely be near 5 to 10 mph higher
than forecast at times. Peak gusts up to 35 to 40 mph possible.

&&

.LONG TERM /SUNDAY THROUGH FRIDAY/...
The northern stream remains active into Sunday and possibly early 
Monday as the flow is near zonal and weak/low amplitude shortwaves 
track across the northern portion of the country.
Beginning Monday, and through the upcoming week, the upper flow 
become much more highly amplified with the trough remaining over the 
eastern portions of the nation, and a ridge building along the west 
coast and tracking slowly east through the week, and the eastern 
trough moves off the coast by late in the week. There are no polar 
intrusions of cold air expected and temperatures will mainly be near 
normals levels, with the exception of Monday and Monday night, and 
again Friday and Friday night when temperatures will be several 
degrees above normal. Precipitation moves into the region Sunday 
night as a warm front moves toward the area with southerly winds 
ahead of the low. Lingering cold air across the Lower Hudson Valley 
and across portions of the interior will allow for a period of 
wintry weather Sunday night, then transitioning to all rain Monday 
as the warmer air moves northward. With the amplified trough over 
the east coast early next week the next system will be passing to 
the south, and the track is a little uncertain.
Once again there will be interior colder air Tuesday night and the 
precipitation may begin as a wintry mix. there and rain along the 
coast. Dry weather will then dominate Wednesday night into Friday. 
Through the extended used the NBM deterministic temperatures and 
probabilities with little variance expected.
However, did lean toward higher winds and gusts, using the 50th and 
90th percentiles with strong winds expected with the low pressure 
systems impacting the area.

&&

.AVIATION /00Z SATURDAY THROUGH WEDNESDAY/...
VFR. High pressure gradually builds towards the area tonight. A
weak frontal system approaches on Saturday. 

NW wind 10 to around 15 kt,diminishing through the night. Gusts
of 20-25 kt will continue through at least 01Z, and may continue
a couple of hours thereafter, or become occasional. Winds will 
then become W and then SW and continue to weaken to less than 10
kt. Some outlying areas may go light and variable before
daybreak Saturday. SW winds increase Saturday morning with 
gusts up to 20 kt late morning and early afternoon, increasing 
to around 25 kt by late afternoon.

 ...NY Metro (KEWR/KLGA/KJFK/KTEB) TAF Uncertainty... 

End time of gusts this evening may be off by 1-2 hours. 

.OUTLOOK FOR 00Z SUNDAY THROUGH WEDNESDAY...

Saturday Night: VFR. Slight chance of a shower, mainly NW of 
NYC. Winds shifting to the NW with the passage of the cold
front, gusts 20-30 kt, not beginning to diminish until a few
hours prior to daybreak Sunday.

Sunday: VFR.  

Sunday Night and Monday: Becoming IFR with rain. Possible onset as 
snow for KSWF. S gusts 15-25kt, strongest near the coast on Monday.

Tuesday: VFR. SW gusts 15-20 kt possible.

Wednesday: MVFR possible. Chance of showers. 

Detailed information, including hourly TAF wind component forecasts, 
can be found at: https:/www.weather.gov/zny/n90

&&

.MARINE...
Small Craft Advisories across the harbor and western sound were
allowed to expire as winds have diminished. 

SCA levels gusts continue into this evening, lasting longest 
farther east. SCA level ocean seas continue through this evening
and then linger overnight east of Fire Island Inlet.

A brief period of sub-SCA conditions expected before daybreak
Saturday, continuing through the morning hours. SCA conditions
re-develop on the ocean Saturday afternoon, eventually becoming
widespread across all waters Saturday night.

A strong and gusty northwest will be continuing across the forecast 
waters behind a departing low pressure system. Small craft advisory 
level gusts may be on-going across all the forecast waters early 
Sunday morning. Winds and gusts will be subsiding Sunday morning as 
high pressure builds in from the west, however, advisory conditions 
will remain on the ocean waters into Sunday afternoon. Winds and 
seas then remain below advisory levels Sunday night. Another low 
pressure system approaches for Monday, and increasing southeast 
winds ahead of the low may gust to advisory levels across the 
forecast waters by late Monday morning, with ocean seas building to 
advisory levels. And by late Monday afternoon a few gusts on the 
ocean waters may be near gale force. This will be dependent on the 
strength of the low and how quickly the system tracks, before winds 
begin to diminish as a cold front moves into the waters. Behind the 
cold front winds shift to the southwest, and ocean seas will be 
subsiding Monday night through Tuesday evening, before falling below 
advisory levels. Winds and seas remain below advisory levels across 
the forecast waters Wednesday and Wednesday night with a weak 
pressure gradient across the region.

&&

.FIRE WEATHER...
NW flow frequently gusting to 30 to 35 mph and RH quickly 
lowering to 25-30 percent expected, after a wetting rain of 1/2 to
1 inch overnight. Winds on a downward trend.

With collab with NY land managers, SPS for rapid fire spread 
issued for Long Island where rainfall totals were mostly near 
quarter inch or less. SPS in effect continues until 7pm this 
evening.

Winds not nearly as gusty for Saturday and become more SW,
allowing for low level moisture increase. Min RH will not be as
low more in the 30 to 45 percent range. Gusts up to near 20 to
30 mph, mainly in the afternoon. Forecast conditions Saturday
less conducive to fire spread compared to previous day.

&&

.HYDROLOGY...
Moisture limited cold front moving across with rainfall amounts
under a quarter of an inch Saturday afternoon into Saturday night.
No hydrologic issues expected.

No significant hydrologic impacts expected through middle of next 
week at this time.

&&

.OKX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CT...None.
NY...None.
NJ...None.
MARINE...Small Craft Advisory until 10 PM EDT this evening for ANZ331-
     332-340-345.
     Small Craft Advisory until 5 AM EDT Saturday for ANZ350-353.
     Small Craft Advisory until midnight EDT tonight for ANZ355.

&&

$$

SYNOPSIS...JM/MET
NEAR TERM...JM/MET
SHORT TERM...JM
LONG TERM...MET
AVIATION...JP
MARINE...JM/JP/MET
FIRE WEATHER...
HYDROLOGY...JM/MET
