836 
FXUS61 KOKX 191820
AFDOKX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service New York NY
220 PM EDT Thu Jun 19 2025

.SYNOPSIS...
A cold front approaches this afternoon and moves across the 
region tonight. High pressure builds Friday followed by a weak
low pressure trough on Saturday. and into the weekend. Bermuda
high pressure will then settle just south of the region for the
first half of next week.

&&

.NEAR TERM /THROUGH TONIGHT/...
Key Messages...

* Severe Thunderstorm Watch in Effect Until 9 pm for NYC metro,
  NE NJ, Lower Hudson Valley, Western Long Island, and much of
  Southern Connecticut. 

* Hot and Humid conditions this afternoon. 

Shortwave trough approaches in late afternoon, encountering a 
moderately unstable and deeply sheared environment. Convective
development underway across NE NJ and parts of the Lower Hudson
Valley and is beginning to form into broken line segments. Some
of this activity may move over the NYC metro early this 
afternoon. 

The convection organize further this afternoon into one or two 
lines segments with scattered severe storms. MLCAPE 1500-2000
J/kg and strong effective bulk shear 35-40 kt will help with
storm organization. The main threat will be from damaging wind 
gusts in excess of 58 mph. The shear is unidirectional, but an
isolated tornado risk exists from outflow and mesoscale boundary
collisions that could enhance directional shear briefly. An 
isolated hail threat also exists. 

Farther east across eastern LI and southeastern CT, expectation
is that storms should gradually weaken as they move east as they
encounter a more stable environment.

Any thunderstorm may produce frequent cloud-to-ground lightning
along with locally heavy rainfall. The mid level flow is fast
enough to preclude any significant flood threat, but minor
urban/poor drainage flooding is a possibility with a localized
flash flood threat in more urban areas.

Convection diminishes with loss of heating this evening and
especially after sunset. A few lingering showers/storms or
lingering stratiform rain could persist a few hours after 
sunset. 

Temperatures will reach the mid to upper 80s near the coast and
upper 80s to low 90s elsewhere. Heat indices peak 90-95 most
spots with a few areas in the upper 90s. 

The cold front passes across the area tonight.

&&

.SHORT TERM /FRIDAY THROUGH SATURDAY/...
Dry and still very warm but less humid wx expected for Fri, 
with gusty W-NW winds possibly shifting SW along the coast via
some sea breeze influence. An approaching shortwave trough may 
bring some showers and possibly a tstm on Sat. Temps will be
warmer on Sat, with highs reaching the lower 90s in NE NJ and
rising well into the 80s elsewhere.

&&

.LONG TERM /SATURDAY NIGHT THROUGH THURSDAY/...
*HOT AND HUMID CONDITIONS LATE THIS WEEKEND INTO EARLY NEXT WEEK*

No significant changes for the long term period so the NBM was 
generally followed.

Gradual height rises are expected to take place for the most part 
beginning into the weekend. Much of the NWP global guidance is 
suggestive of a shortwave feature which attempts to ride and break 
through the northern portion of the building ridge Saturday night 
and into early Sunday. This will be a transient feature as questions 
remain as to how this feature will track and whether its effects 
will be mainly north of the CWA towards the middle of the upcoming 
weekend. For now have covered this feature with slight chance to low 
end chance PoPs. In any event, the turn to a hot and humid regime 
looks likely into early next week as higher heights and thicknesses 
build across the region. The warm up is expected to begin to build 
by late Sunday, especially for western and southwestern most areas.

Hot and humid conditions thus are likely to prevail Monday through 
Wednesday with primarily dry weather as any shower / t-storm 
activity is likely to remain west and northwest of the region. At 
this time it appears that a good portion of the region will 
experience the first heat wave of the season, with less certainty 
further east. Regardless, temperatures will average well above 
normal into next week. Towards the tail end of the period (say mid 
to late week) if the ridge break downs enough, the chance of 
diurnally driven convection would increase and could introduce some 
chance of late day and early evening showers and t-storms.

&&

.AVIATION /18Z THURSDAY THROUGH TUESDAY/...
A cold front moves across tonight. Western Atlantic high pressure 
then builds late tonight into Friday.

Showers and thunderstorms expected for some terminals initially this 
afternoon with most coverage within the 20-00Z timeframe. Lowering 
chances thereafter for the rest of this evening. Then, mainly dry 
overnight through Friday. 

Mainly VFR conditions through the TAF period except for within 
thunderstorms where brief MVFR to IFR is possible. Possible 
MVFR to IFR for some time late tonight at KGON.

Winds are S-SW near 10-15 kt with gusts near 20 kt through this 
evening and then winds become more westerly late tonight without 
much change in speed. Still potential for near 20 kt gusts 
overnight. Winds pick up from the west Friday near 15-20 kt with 
gusts near 25 kt.

 ...NY Metro (KEWR/KLGA/KJFK/KTEB) TAF Uncertainty...

Amendments likely for thunderstorm timing before 00Z.

Strong gusts near 35-50 kt possible with some thunderstorms.

Brief IFR to MVFR potential with thunderstorms.

.OUTLOOK FOR 00Z FRIDAY THROUGH MONDAY... 

Friday: VFR. W wind gusts near 20-25 kt. Gusts subside at night.

Saturday through Tuesday: Mainly VFR. SW wind gusts 15-20 kt 
for Sunday.

Detailed information, including hourly TAF wind component forecasts, 
can be found at: https:/www.weather.gov/zny/n90

&&

.MARINE...
Scattered thunderstorms are possible this afternoon and evening.
A few severe thunderstorms are possible over the Harbor, Western
LI Sound, and ocean west of Fire Island Inlet. Wind gusts in
excess of 34 kt, some hail, and frequent lighting are possible.
Further east, thunderstorms will likely be weaker, but could
still produce gusty winds. 

Near shore gusts could reach 25 kt this afternoon with an SCA
issued for all waters. SW flow increasing to 15-20 kt should 
however build ocean seas to 5-6 ft mainly E of Fire Island 
Inlet beginning this evening and lasting into Fri afternoon or 
evening. A few gusts to 25 kt may also be possible late tonight
into Fri morning for NY Harbor and the nearby ocean waters.

Winds and waves are expected to fall below Small Craft Advisory 
criteria Friday afternoon and continue through early next week.
Ocean seas should settle in around 2 ft, occasionally up to 3 ft 
during the weekend and into early next week.

&&

.HYDROLOGY...
Localized flash flooding cannot be ruled out this afternoon and
evening in any thunderstorm. The quicker storm motion will 
limit the flash flood threat.

There are currently no hydrologic concerns Friday through early
next week.

&&

.TIDES/COASTAL FLOODING...
A moderate rip current risk this morning should increase to a
high risk later today for the NYC and Nassau ocean beaches as 
S-SW onshore flow increases. 

A high risk expected for all ocean beaches on Fri, on a
lingering 5-6 ft buoy wave height on a S-SE 7-second wave
period.

&&

.OKX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CT...Air Quality Alert until 11 PM EDT this evening for CTZ005>007-
     009>011.
NY...High Risk for Rip Currents until 9 PM EDT this evening for NYZ075-
     178-179.
NJ...None.
MARINE...Small Craft Advisory until 11 PM EDT this evening for ANZ331-
     332-335-338-340-345-355.
     Small Craft Advisory until midnight EDT Friday night for 
     ANZ350.
     Small Craft Advisory until 6 PM EDT Friday for ANZ353.

&&

$$

SYNOPSIS...BG/MW
NEAR TERM...BG/DS
SHORT TERM...BG
LONG TERM...MW
AVIATION...JM
MARINE...BG/DS/MW
HYDROLOGY...BG/MW
TIDES/COASTAL FLOODING...
