086 
FXUS61 KOKX 291352
AFDOKX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service New York NY
952 AM EDT Tue Apr 29 2025

.SYNOPSIS...
A cold front approaches from the west this afternoon and passes
through late tonight into early Wednesday morning. High 
pressure then returns for much of Wednesday and Thursday. A warm
front approaches Thursday night and lifts through the region on
Friday, with an attendant cold front following during Saturday.
Thereafter, high pressure attempts to build in from the west 
into early next week.

&&

.NEAR TERM /THROUGH TONIGHT/...
Only some cosmetic adjustments with regard to temps, dew points,
and winds with tightening Ambrose style jet into this afternoon
as the forecast remains primarily on track.

SW-S winds into this afternoon with high pressure centered off 
the Mid- Atlantic coast. With mostly sunny conditions and mixing
up to 900- 850mb for western portions of the forecast area 
unaffected by an onshore flow, went a few degrees above 
deterministic NBM, which has been consistently below its 25th 
percentile for the past several runs. Highs ranging from the 
low-mid 80s in the urban corridor of NE NJ to the upper 60s for 
the south-facing shores of LI and SE CT.

Given the deep mixing expected through the day for the warmest 
areas, dew points are expected to remain mostly 40-45 despite a 
persistent SW flow. This deeper mixing and warm temperatures will 
cause RH values to drop to 25-35% this afternoon. This dry air 
combined with wind gusts 25-30 mph may allow for the elevated risk 
of fire spread. As such, a collaborated SPS for Northeast NJ, the 
Lower Hudson Valley and CT is posted to address this potential this 
afternoon into early evening.

Weakening convection ahead of an approaching cold front brings 
chances (20-40%) of residual showers pushing into the forecast area 
tonight. A rumble of thunder still cannot be ruled out over the 
Lower Hudson Valley and vicinity during the earlier evening hours. 
Any convection that survives will likely be below severe thresholds.

&&

.SHORT TERM /WEDNESDAY THROUGH THURSDAY NIGHT/...
The cold front is expected to be in the vicinity of eastern LI at 
sunrise Wednesday. Building surface high pressure follows through 
the day and remains in control through Thursday as ridging continues 
aloft. Dry weather through at least Thursday afternoon. For highs on 
Wednesday, went closer to the warmer 50th percentile NBM given the 
progged temps at the top of the mixed layer and a NW flow. 
Deterministic NBM looked good for Thursday with an onshore flow and 
more clouds around vs Weds. 

Surface low pressure shifts NE through the eastern Great Lakes 
Region during Thursday night. A leading warm front is progged to 
reach part of the forecast area by daybreak Friday. Increased 
moisture with 850mb theta-e advection and isentropic lift bring 
chances (40-50%) of light rain or showers mainly after midnight. 
Can't rule out an isolated rumble of thunder with some elevated 
instability, but it appears that any rainfall will more likely be 
relatively on the lighter side as guidance has consistently shown 
modest qpf totals for several days now.

&&

.LONG TERM /FRIDAY THROUGH MONDAY/...
Digging trough into the Great Lakes region with a couple embedded 
shortwaves sends a frontal system toward the region late this week.
Associated warm front lifts thru locally Friday morning, with 
scattered showers possible to start before drying for the bulk of 
the afternoon. Attendant cold front then approaches late in the day, 
instigating another round of showers and perhaps tstorms as well 
ahead of the boundary Friday evening and night. Guidance is also 
converging on a frontal wave of low pressure developing along the 
boundary as it moves east, producing additional wet weather 
Saturday. The probability for severe weather is low. QPF outside any 
convective maxima thru this time should largely remain under an 
inch, though the slower progression of the entire system could 
enhance totals just a bit further.

Considerable uncertainty in the forecast moving into early next 
week, hinging on whether the associated upper low is able to 
sufficiently pass east, or cut off from the flow and meander nearby 
for several days. EPS and GEPS lean toward a cutoff solution, 
leading to a much more dreary outlook. Meanwhile, the bulk of 00Z 
GEFS members keep the system moving east, with high pressure quickly 
building in behind it early next week. Associated Pac energy remains 
offshore, and better sampling should help resolve the solution over 
the next day or two as it moves into British Columbia. 

The region lies in the warm sector of the system on Friday and sets 
up the mildest day of the period. Temperatures away from maritime 
influence, generally west of the Hudson River, likely climb into the 
upper 70s and lower 80s, with potential for mid 80s. Cooler along 
the immediate coast with onshore southerly flow, closer to 70. The 
region should fall back to more typical conditions behind the system 
early next week as high pressure attempts to return, though 
temperatures could be cooler should a meandering upper low remain 
nearby.

&&

.AVIATION /14Z TUESDAY THROUGH SATURDAY/...
High pressure remains centered offshore today ahead of an 
approaching cold front. The front moves through early Wednesday.

VFR thru the day.

General S/SW flow today, speeds increase to start with gusts 20
to 25 kt developing by late morning, and a sea breeze likely 
contributing a few additional knots to coastal terminals into 
the afternoon. Gusts persist this evening and into tonight, and 
LLWS is possible for a period at KISP and KGON with winds at 
2kft above 40 kt. An approaching cold front introduces the 
chance for a few rain showers, mainly north and west of NYC 
terminals after 3Z. Conditions dry behind the front, with flow 
veering NW into mid Wed AM. 

 ...NY Metro (KEWR/KLGA/KJFK/KTEB) TAF Uncertainty...

Isolated gusts 30 to 35 kt possible late this afternoon into early 
evening.

Brief MVFR conds possible tonight with a slight chance of rain 
showers.

.OUTLOOK FOR 06Z WEDNESDAY THROUGH SATURDAY...

Late tonight: A chance of rain showers north and west of NYC 
terminals with brief MVFR possible. A slight chance of showers for 
other terminals. A slight chance of thunderstorms, mainly in the 
evening north and west of NYC terminals. SW wind gusts near 20 kt, 
becoming more westerly late. LLWS east of NYC terminals with SW 
winds at 2kft near 40-45 kt.

Wednesday: VFR. NW wind gusts 15-20 kt during the day.

Thursday: Mainly VFR. MVFR or lower possible at night with a chance 
of showers, slight chance of thunderstorms.

Friday: MVFR or lower possible. A chance of showers. A chance of 
thunderstorms during the day. A slight chance of thunderstorms at 
night. SW wind gusts 15-20 kt afternoon into evening.

Saturday: MVFR or lower possible. A chance of showers. A slight 
chance of thunderstorms. NW winds gusts 15-20 kt during the day.

Detailed information, including hourly TAF wind component forecasts, 
can be found at: https:/www.weather.gov/zny/n90


.OUTLOOK FOR 06Z WEDNESDAY THROUGH SATURDAY...

Late tonight: A chance of rain showers north and west of NYC 
terminals with brief MVFR possible. A slight chance of showers 
for other terminals. A slight chance of thunderstorms, mainly in
the evening north and west of NYC terminals. SW wind gusts near
20 kt, becoming more westerly late. LLWS east of NYC terminals 
with SW winds at 2kft near 45-50 kt.

Wednesday: VFR. NW wind gusts 15-20 kt during the day.

Thursday: Mainly VFR. MVFR or lower possible at night with a chance 
of showers, slight chance of thunderstorms.

Friday: MVFR or lower possible. A chance of showers. A chance of 
thunderstorms during the day. A slight chance of thunderstorms at 
night. SW wind gusts 15-20 kt afternoon into evening.

Saturday: MVFR or lower possible. A chance of showers. A slight 
chance of thunderstorms. NW winds gusts 15-20 kt during the day.

Detailed information, including hourly TAF wind component forecasts, 
can be found at: https:/www.weather.gov/zny/n90

&&

.MARINE...
South to SW winds increase into the afternoon with SCA conditions
developing on all waters this afternoon. A cold front then passes
through late tonight into Wednesday morning with gusts still 
above 25 kt and elevated seas on the ocean. SCA has been 
extended to parts of Wednesday on the ocean. Only other 
adjustment to the SCA was to extend it through the entire night 
for most of the non-ocean waters. A period of sub-advisory 
conditions then follows for all waters for much of Weds 
afternoon through Thursday night as a high pressure ridge shifts
through the region.

Strengthening southerly flow associated with an approaching frontal 
system could introduce a period of SCA conditions on the ocean 
beginning Friday, with wind gusts up to 25 kt and seas 5 to 6 ft. 
Winds lighten Friday night, but elevated seas may linger into the 
weekend.

&&

.FIRE WEATHER...
Dry conditions with the combination of low relative humidity values 
between mostly 25 and 35 percent and frequent wind gusts of 25 to 30 
mph will create an elevated risk for fire spread this afternoon into 
early evening. Special Weather Statements are in effect for 
most of the area (excludes NYC and LI).

&&

.HYDROLOGY...
There are no hydrologic concerns through the forecast period.

&&

.TIDES/COASTAL FLOODING...
Astronomically high tides will couple with a modest S/SW flow to 
allow water levels to approach or a low probability of just 
touching minor flood thresholds in the most vulnerable locales 
of coastal Nassau, Queens, and Fairfield during this evening's 
high tide cycle. No headlines have been issued at the present
time.

&&

.OKX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CT...None.
NY...None.
NJ...None.
MARINE...Small Craft Advisory until 6 AM EDT Wednesday for ANZ331-332-
     340-345.
     Small Craft Advisory until 2 AM EDT Wednesday for ANZ335-338.
     Small Craft Advisory until 2 PM EDT Wednesday for ANZ350-353.
     Small Craft Advisory until 11 AM EDT Wednesday for ANZ355.

&&

$$

SYNOPSIS...JC/DR
NEAR TERM...JC/JE
SHORT TERM...JC
LONG TERM...DR
AVIATION...DR
MARINE...JC/DR
FIRE WEATHER...
HYDROLOGY...JC/DR
TIDES/COASTAL FLOODING...
