193 
FXUS61 KOKX 130823
AFDOKX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service New York NY
323 AM EST Thu Feb 13 2025

.SYNOPSIS...
Low pressure and its associated cold front lifts north of the area 
as a cold front pivots through late this afternoon. A large dome of 
high pressure over the nation's midsection builds tonight and 
Friday, before settling over the area Friday night. Another 
storm system then impacts the area later Saturday into Sunday. 
High pressure slowly builds back in early next week. Low 
pressure may impact the area for the middle of next week.

&&

.NEAR TERM /THROUGH TONIGHT/...
Winter Weather Advisory remains in effect for the interior
through 9am EST this morning.

After a few localized pockets of freezing rain across far interior 
northern sections of Orange and perhaps Fairfield, look for all rain 
across the region through the entire morning for the most part. The 
mid levels dry out quickly as low pressure and its associated warm 
front begin to pull north of the area. The initial cold front washes 
out over the area as the winds go from SW behind the warm front for 
the morning and early afternoon, to a more W direction. By very late 
in the afternoon and into the early evening the winds then become 
more NW as the main cold front pushes through.

For tonight the winds will be gusty, with a few peak gusts 
immediately behind the front possibly getting to 35 mph. Otherwise 
expect 25 to 35 mph gusts tonight with strong mixing on more of a NW 
flow with strong cold advection. Skies will be clear as temperatures 
will turn sharply colder late in the evening and into the overnight. 
Temperatures drop below freezing shortly after midnight in most 
places, with widespread 20s towards daybreak. The gusty NW winds 
will make it feel like it is in the teens region wide by early 
Friday morning.

&&

.SHORT TERM /FRIDAY THROUGH FRIDAY NIGHT/...
A brisk start to the day with a good deal of sunshine. The winds 
will gust to around 30 mph through midday, with the winds 
diminishing for later in the afternoon. With complete sunshine for 
much of the day, look for a few high clouds late in the day. 
Temperatures should average a good 5 or so degrees below normal with 
middle and upper 30s.

For Friday night look for increasing high and mid level clouds, 
especially after midnight. With the high settling over the area look 
for the winds to go calm. A tricky temperature forecast as enough 
high clouds could affect minimum temperatures some. If less cloud 
cover gets in then radiational cooling would be rather impressive 
with calm winds. For now will take a middle of the road approach 
with low temperatures, with mainly lower and middle 20s for the 
metro and coast, and some teens across the rural and interior 
sections.

&&

.LONG TERM /SATURDAY THROUGH WEDNESDAY/...
Another amplifying southern branch storm system will lift out of
the Mid Mississippi Valley Saturday, tracking to the north and 
west of the forecast area Saturday night into Sunday. At the 
same time, the polar vortex descends south and east out of central
Canada. Shortwave energy out ahead of it interacts with the 
aforementioned low with explosive deepening Sunday into Sunday 
night. There is some uncertainty with how quickly the cold air 
to start on Saturday retreats to the northeast, but strong 
thermal forcing will produce widespread precipitation across the
area beginning Saturday afternoon and night. This will likely 
begin as snow everywhere with a changeover from south to north 
starting at the coast late afternoon with most locations
becoming all rain around or shortly after midnight. There could
be a few pockets of surface temperatures around freezing well 
north and west of the NYC metro until around daybreak. Thus, 
looking at the potential for an advisory level event inland 
with a combination of snow and ice. Coastal locations are 
expected to see a quicker changeover with perhaps a light 
snowfall accumulation during the afternoon hours Saturday. 

For Sunday, the area gets into the warm sector as low pressure 
passes to the north and west with a gusty southerly flow, especially
for coastal locations. There is even a low chance at this time 
for an embedded thunderstorms just south of the area in warm 
conveyor belt showers. This will be refined as we get closer to 
the event. Highs on Sunday in the warm sector are forecast to 
get will into the 40s and possibly the lower 50s across NYC and 
LI. A strong cold front will then pass through late Sunday 
afternoon and evening. There are some timing issues with the 12Z
operational runs with the GFS being the fastest. At this time, 
saw no reason to defer from the NBM. More importantly, a piece 
of arctic air associated with the polar vortex dropping across 
the Great Lakes Sunday night into Monday will bring in a much 
colder airmass for the first half of next week. This will be 
accompanied by a gusty WNW flow Sunday night into Tuesday. Highs
will top out in the upper 20s to lower 30s with lows getting 
into the teens for Tuesday and Wednesday mornings. Leaned a bit 
colder than the NBM based on 2m temps in many of the operational
runs and the magnitude of the cold air coming down with 85h 
temps over the area on Tuesday around -20C.

Cold high pressure builds in for Wednesday with some uncertainty
with the southern branch storm track. The GFS is aggressive in 
taking low pressure up the east coast late Wednesday. This 
hinges on the amount of energy left in the northern branch back 
across the Great Lakes and the amount of phasing and/or interaction
between the two stream. However, it is much too early to have 
any certainty at this point in time, but something to watch. For
the time, there are low chances for snow late Wednesday.

&&

.AVIATION /08Z THURSDAY THROUGH MONDAY/...
A warm front passes through this morning, followed by a cold 
front this afternoon. High pressure then builds in tonight.

Rain across the southern terminals with IFR to LIFR. Across the
interior, a wintry mix is likely with snow, mixing with rain 
and sleet, also with IFR to LIFR. At KSWF a period of freezing 
rain is possible before going over to plain rain early this 
morning. Timing of the precipitation type changeover is 
uncertain and may be later than forecast. Once precipitation 
ends, conditions will fairly quickly return to VFR late 
this afternoon.

Less than 1 inch of snow/sleet accumulation expected north of 
New York City, with a glaze of ice possible at KSWF.

E/NE flow overnight, with gusts to around 20 kt along the coast, may 
briefly become light and variable as the warm front passes through 
this morning. Winds then become S/SW , and then W this afternoon 
with gusts around 25 kt. Late afternoon into Thursday evening winds 
become W/NW with gusts to around 30 kt, and briefly higher.

 ...NY Metro (KEWR/KLGA/KJFK/KTEB) TAF Uncertainty... 

Amendments likely for changing flight categories before late
this afternoon, then becoming VFR.

Peak gusts to around 30 kt possible late Thursday into Thursday 
evening, then diminishing.

.OUTLOOK FOR 06Z FRIDAY THROUGH MONDAY... 

Late tonight: VFR. W/NW gusts around 25 kt, occasionally up to 
30 kt along the coast.

Friday: VFR. NW wind gusts 25 to 30 kt during the day.

Saturday - Sunday: Low pres could bring a wintry mix changing to 
rain mainly late Sat into Sun. The rain could be locally hvy.
LLWS possible along with IFR.

Monday: VFR with gusty W flow.

Detailed information, including hourly TAF wind component forecasts, 
can be found at: https:/www.weather.gov/zny/n90

&&

.MARINE...
Small craft conditions will prevail on the ocean waters today
with 5 to 8 ft ocean seas and gusts around 25 kt for the most 
part. Towards late in the day and evening small craft conditions
develop for the nearshore waters with gusts of 25 to 30 kt. At 
the same time winds ramp up to gales on the ocean waters 
throughout tonight. During Friday gales convert over to small 
craft conditions out on the ocean, with small crafts for the 
nearshore waters lingering for a good portion of the day. With 
high pressure approaching the waters look for conditions to 
subside late Friday afternoon and evening. As the high moves 
over the waters Friday night looks for the winds and seas to 
subside further.

High pressure on Saturday morning gives way to another storm 
system Saturday afternoon into Sunday. SCA conditions are 
forecast to redevelop on the ocean waters late Saturday night 
and across all waters Sunday in a strengthening southerly flow 
ahead of an approaching cold front and deepening low pressure 
passing to the northwest. Gales are possible on the ocean Sunday
afternoon, but temperature profiles may be too inverted to mix 
down gale force winds to the surface. However, behind a strong 
cold frontal passage late Sunday afternoon into evening, a 
westerly gale will be possible across all waters Sunday night 
into Monday.

&&

.HYDROLOGY...
There are no hydrologic concerns through the period.

&&

.TIDES/COASTAL FLOODING...
With a recent full moon and increasing easterly to
southeasterly flow, this will allow for building waves and 
increase the surge tonight into early Thursday. Result will be 
higher total water levels across the coast. Surge models have 
trended a few tenths of a foot higher than the previous day. 
Minor coastal flooding is expected for much of the coastline 
early Thursday as forecast surge reaches around 2 feet.

The total water level forecast for early Thursday reaches or
exceeds minor flood benchmarks for much of the coastline. The 
total water level forecast took a blend of ETSS, ESTOFS, 50th 
and 95th NY HOPS ensemble surge guidance. Wanted to go above the
average due to anticipated extra surge. Plus, previous high 
tide cycle earlier today with respect to the NY HOPS surge 
ensemble, ended up verifying more within the upper bounds of 
that ensemble.

Have issued coastal flood advisories where total water level 
forecast exceeds minor coastal flood benchmarks by at least a
few tenths of a foot. The total water level in some locations 
within the advisory may approach close to respective moderate 
coastal flood benchmarks such as within some parts of the South 
Shore Bays but all coastline forecasts at this time for early 
Thursday high tide are below moderate coastal flood benchmarks.
Have issued coastal flood statements where total water level 
forecast approaches to just touches respective minor coastal 
flood benchmarks.

Concerning erosion, just minor beach erosion expected with
some minor beach flooding but dune erosion is not expected. The
ocean waves are forecast to increase to 6 to 9 ft late tonight 
into early Thursday but will not be breaking directly against 
coast. The strongest winds tonight into early Thursday will be 
more easterly and not as perpendicular to the shoreline. When 
the winds become more southerly Thursday and more perpendicular 
to the shoreline, they will be decreasing.

Winds further become westerly behind a cold front Thursday 
afternoon, and that will really decrease the surge. Subsequent
high tide cycles are not expected to have any coastal flooding 
for late Thursday through Friday night.

&&

.OKX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CT...Winter Weather Advisory until 9 AM EST this morning for 
     CTZ005>008.
     Coastal Flood Advisory from 9 AM this morning to 2 PM EST this 
     afternoon for CTZ009.
NY...Winter Weather Advisory until 9 AM EST this morning for 
     NYZ067>070.
     Coastal Flood Advisory from 9 AM this morning to 2 PM EST this 
     afternoon for NYZ071.
     Coastal Flood Advisory until 11 AM EST this morning for NYZ074-
     075.
     Coastal Flood Advisory until noon EST today for NYZ178-179.
NJ...Winter Weather Advisory until 9 AM EST this morning for NJZ002-
     103.
     Coastal Flood Advisory until 11 AM EST this morning for NJZ006-
     106-108.
MARINE...Small Craft Advisory until 6 AM EST early this morning for 
     ANZ331-332-335-338-340-345.
     Small Craft Advisory until 6 PM EST this evening for ANZ350-
     353-355.
     Gale Warning from 6 PM this evening to 6 AM EST Friday for 
     ANZ350-353-355.

&&

$$

SYNOPSIS...JE/DW
NEAR TERM...JE
SHORT TERM...JE
LONG TERM...DW
AVIATION...JC
MARINE...JE/DW
HYDROLOGY...JE/DW
TIDES/COASTAL FLOODING...
