343 
FXUS61 KOKX 072117
AFDOKX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service New York NY
417 PM EST Fri Feb 7 2025

.SYNOPSIS...
High pressure builds in from the west through the first half of
Saturday. Low pressure then approaches from the Ohio Valley on 
Saturday with a secondary low taking shape south of Long Island 
Saturday night. Low pressure departs to the east Sunday as high
pressure builds to the west. High pressure will be in control 
Sunday night into Monday. A series of low pressures may impact 
the waters Tuesday through Thursday. 

&&

.NEAR TERM /UNTIL 6 AM SATURDAY MORNING/...
The passage of a northern branch shortwave trough and deepening
low pressure over the Canadian Maritimes will continue to allow
colder air to filter into the area tonight on NW winds. Wind 
gusts of 20 to 30 mph early this evening will quickly subside as
high pressure builds east from the Ohio Valley. Expect a mainly
clear night with some high clouds filtering in from the west 
toward daybreak. Lows will range from the upper teens inland to 
the lower and middle 20s at the coast. This is right around 
normal.

&&

.SHORT TERM /6 AM SATURDAY MORNING THROUGH SATURDAY NIGHT/...
There is good model agreement in taking a southern branch low 
over the Mid Mississippi Valley east on Saturday and into the 
Ohio Valley by late afternoon/early evening. As the upper 
forcing approaches the coast Saturday night, a secondary low 
takes shape south of Long Island, passing to the south and east 
overnight. How quickly this secondary low takes shape will be 
critical into how strong of an elevated warm layer gets into 
the area ahead of the weakening primary low to the west. There 
seems to be good agreement with a warm nose pushing into the 
NYC/NE metro, southern portions of the Lower Hudson Valley, and 
western LI around 10 pm - Midnight. Beyond that, the warm air 
may not get too much farther north and east as the coastal low 
takes shape to the south and SE winds back around to the E/NE
and mid level cool. While this is a close call with the 
precipitation likely transitioning to a mix closer to the coast,
strong thermal forcing and frontogenetic forcing will provide a
quick front end dump of snow for most locations with snowfall 
rates an inch plus for about a 2 to 3 hour period. Most of this
occurs from Saturday evening into early Sunday morning with a 
transition to a lighter precipitation mixed with sleet, freezing
drizzle, and possibly plain rain at the coast (LI and NYC). 
Light precipitation will then linger into Sunday morning with 
little additional snowfall and/or ice accretion. Any icing looks
light, perhaps a glaze on top of the already fallen snow.

Snowfall totals of 3 to 5 inches are expected across LI and the
NYC/NJ metro, where a winter weather advisory is in effect. 
Across interior NE NJ, the Lower Hudson Valley, and southern CT,
expect 5 to 7 inches with a Winter Storm Warning in effect. 
Winds through the event are expected to be under 10 mph, so 
blowing and drifting unlikely. 

Temperatures on Saturday get up into the lower and middle 30s, 
then fall into the upper 20s and lower 30s in the evening with 
the onset of the snow, fluctuating little overnight.

&&

.LONG TERM /SUNDAY THROUGH FRIDAY/...
Key Points:

* Increased confidence for accumulating snow late Tuesday night into 
  early Wednesday.

* Uncertainty remains high for accumulating snow Wednesday through 
  Thursday as additional low pressure systems possibly  impact the 
  area. 

* Daytime high temperatures will be below normal for much of the 
  week, with the exception of Thursday, with near normal overnight 
  low temperatures.

The fast and nearly zonal flow aloft will continue Sunday through 
Wednesday with a more amplified trough approaching the east coast 
Thursday and passing through Thursday night. High pressure briefly 
build into the area late Sunday through late Monday. With another 
high likely building to the north late Tuesday through Wednesday 
cold air will remain in place. And with a couple of lows passing to 
the south precipitation with these lows late Tuesday into Wednesday 
will be all snow across the region. The track of the lows are a 
little uncertain and will be determined with the strength of the 
high to the north.
There is increased confidence for an accumulating snow late Tuesday 
into Wednesday, however, amounts are uncertain with the track of the 
low, and have trended lower.

There may be a brief break in the precipitation later Wednesday into 
Wednesday evening, however with the uncertainty with the timing of 
the lows will maintain at least chance probabilities.
With the next low pressure system quickly approaching late 
Wednesday, and being more amplified and a deeper surface low, chances 
remain high for additional snow accumulations at least across the 
inland areas. There will be increased moisture with this system as 
the low takes a southerly track and Gulf moisture entrains. With the 
inland system and a strong southerly flow with strong warm air 
advection, frozen precipitation will likely transition to rain along 
the coast, and mixed precipitation inland. And with the warm 
advection temperatures Thursday may be near to above normal. High 
pressure and upper ridging build behind the low to end next week.

&&

.AVIATION /21Z FRIDAY THROUGH WEDNESDAY/...
High pressure builds towards the terminals through tonight. 

VFR.

WNW-NW winds 15-20 kt with gusts 25-30 kt. Frequent gusts should end 
00-02z, with NW-WNW winds less than 10 kt late tonight. Light NW 
winds for Saturday morning becoming variable late in the morning, 
then SE-S in the afternoon under 10 kt.

 ...NY Metro (KEWR/KLGA/KJFK/KTEB) TAF Uncertainty... 

Winds average around 310 magnetic through into this evening, 
probably favoring north/right of 310 magnetic into this evening. 
Occasional gusts 30-35 kt still possible before 23-00z.

End time of gusts may be off by 1-2 hours.

.OUTLOOK FOR 18Z SATURDAY THROUGH WEDNESDAY... 

Saturday Afternoon: VFR. 

Saturday night: Snow developing, with LIFR/IFR at times. Precip
transitions to a wintry mix for the NYC metros/KISP around midnight. 
Accumulations around 4-7 inches possible at KSWF/KHPN/KBDR/KGON. 
Accumulations of 3-5 inches possible at the NYC metros/KISP.

Sunday: MVFR early, bcmg VFR by noon. NW wind gusts 20-25 kt. 

Monday: VFR.

Tuesday: Chance of snow in the afternoon, becoming likely at night. 
IFR/LIFR conditions possible at night.

Wednesday: Chance of sub-VFR and light snow.

Detailed information, including hourly TAF wind component forecasts, 
can be found at: https:/www.weather.gov/zny/n90

&&

.MARINE...
Sub-SCA conditions are expected to return to all the waters
later this evening into tonight as high pressure builds in from
the west. Winds and seas will then remain below SCA through
Saturday night until low pressure deepens east of the area
Sunday. 

A strong and gusty northwest flow develops behind departing low
pressure Sunday with small craft seas likely on the ocean waters
with marginal advisory gusts. Winds diminish Sunday night with 
building high pressure, however, ocean seas will remain elevated
until late Sunday night. With a weak pressure gradient force 
Tuesday into Wednesday winds and seas remain below advisory 
across all the forecast waters. Then with an increasing 
northeast flow with low pressure impacting the waters Wednesday 
night marginal SCA conditions will be possible across the ocean 
waters.

&&

.HYDROLOGY...
There are no hydrologic concerns through the forecast period.

&&

.OKX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CT...Winter Storm Warning from 5 PM Saturday to 11 AM EST Sunday 
     for CTZ005>012.
NY...Winter Storm Warning from 5 PM Saturday to 11 AM EST Sunday 
     for NYZ067>070.
     Winter Weather Advisory from 5 PM Saturday to 11 AM EST Sunday 
     for NYZ071>075-078>081-176>179.
NJ...Winter Storm Warning from 5 PM Saturday to 11 AM EST Sunday 
     for NJZ002-103.
     Winter Weather Advisory from 5 PM Saturday to 11 AM EST Sunday 
     for NJZ004-006-104>108.
MARINE...Small Craft Advisory until 1 AM EST Saturday for ANZ331-332-
     335-338-340-345-350-353-355.

&&

$$

SYNOPSIS...MET/DW
NEAR TERM...DW
SHORT TERM...DW
LONG TERM...MET
AVIATION...JC
MARINE...MET/DW
HYDROLOGY...MET/DW
