526 
FXUS61 KOKX 050832
AFDOKX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service New York NY
332 AM EST Sun Jan 5 2025

.SYNOPSIS...
The region will be in between low pressure to the northeast and high 
pressure to the southwest. A quick moving low will pass through the 
Mid Atlantic region on Monday and offshore Monday night. High 
pressure then slowly builds in from the west through Friday. An
area of low pressure may pass nearby next weekend.

&&

.NEAR TERM /THROUGH TONIGHT/...
Dry, but breezy today with a fairly tight pressure gradient 
remaining over the area. Winds will diminish more noticeably tonight 
as a weakening surface ridge axis approaches from the west. Partly 
to mostly sunny during the day, then clouds increase tonight in 
association with low pressure well off to our southwest. It should 
remain dry through the night with an outside shot of a flurry or 
light snow sneaking into the extreme SW portion of the forecast area 
towards daybreak. NBM with minor local adjustments was used for 
temperatures.

&&

.SHORT TERM /MONDAY THROUGH TUESDAY NIGHT/...
Models and ensembles remain in very good agreement regarding low 
pressure which will be passing to our south Monday into Monday 
night. A trough axis aloft with an embedded shortwave will shift 
east through the OH and TN Valleys. This will strengthen a surface 
low which will emerge off the NC coast late in the day Monday into 
Monday evening and shift ENE through the night with the trough not 
becoming negatively tilted until the overnight hours. This 
progressive motion will help keep the heaviest snowfall to our 
south, with the northern edge of snowfall likely somewhere over the 
Tri-State area. Liquid equivalent precip and snow amount forecasts 
are very close to the previous couple of forecasts. Very little to 
no accumulation north of the city, and under an inch just about 
everywhere else. Best chance of topping an inch will be in the far SW 
corner of the forecast area. Period of when snow will be most likely 
is mid-late Monday morning through late afternoon. 

Winds pick up in the wake of the low Monday night and increase 
further on Tuesday as high pressure very slowly builds in from the 
NW. Wind chills late Monday night falling into the single digits for 
coastal areas and around zero for the northernmost zones. A gusty NW 
flow continues through Tuesday with gusts 25-35 mph. Dry, but colder 
than normal temperatures with highs only in the upper 20s to lower 
30s. Wind chills Tuesday night falling into the single digits for 
most locations.

&&

.LONG TERM /WEDNESDAY THROUGH SATURDAY/...
Key Points:

* Cold and windy mid to late next week, daytime wind chills in the 
  teens for most.

* Next chance for widespread precipitation could arrive next weekend.

By midweek, surface high pressure centered over the Plains begins to 
build east. This will not only reinforce the cold air mass in place, 
but maintain a tight pressure gradient between the high and 
sprawling low pressure anchored over far eastern Canada. With it, 
blustery conditions are likely to continue Wednesday and Thursday. 
Temperatures, while not record breaking, will run about 10 degrees 
below normal and keep much of the region at or below the freezing 
mark for through at least Thursday. Add the wind component and the 
region could experience wind chills persistently in the single 
digits and teens.

By late next week, a closed low near the Southwest may eject east 
and attempt to interact with a northern branch disturbance diving 
south. Recent operational runs of the GFS and EC have been flirting 
with the possibility of deepening low pressure just off the local 
coast, though their respective ensemble systems continue to offer 
many different solutions at this point. Will be the period to watch 
for the next chance of appreciable precipitation should timing of 
these features line up. 

&&

.AVIATION /09Z SUNDAY THROUGH THURSDAY/...
VFR. The region remains between low pressure to the north and high 
pressure to the south.

W flow 15 kt with gusts around 25 kt increases by 14Z up to 15-
20G30kt, then continuing into early evening. A few gusts over 30 kt 
are possible this afternoon. WNW winds then gradually diminish to 10 
kt or less late this evening.

 ...NY Metro (KEWR/KLGA/KJFK/KTEB) TAF Uncertainty...

No unscheduled AMD expected. 

OUTLOOK FOR 06Z MONDAY THROUGH THURSDAY...

Late tonight: VFR. 

Monday: : Chance of light snow at the NYC metro terminals, KHPN, 
KISP, and KBDR with MVFR cond likely, IFR possible. Light 
accumulation up to an inch at NYC metros and KISP.

Tuesday through Thursday: VFR. NW winds 15-20kt with daytime gusts 
25-30 kt. 

Detailed information, including hourly TAF wind component forecasts, 
can be found at: https:/www.weather.gov/zny/n90

&&

.MARINE...
SCA for all waters today, ending at various points tonight as the 
pressure gradient weakens with diminishing winds and subsiding seas. 
Occasional gale gusts are possible during the day however across the 
ocean waters. A relatively tranquil period then follows on Monday 
before winds and seas ramp up again Monday night with SCA conds by 
Tuesday morning for all waters. This will be due to a tight 
pressure gradient between building high pressure from the west 
and low pressure over eastern Canada.

&&

.HYDROLOGY...
No significant hydrologic issues anticipated through this week.

&&

.OKX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CT...None.
NY...None.
NJ...None.
MARINE...Small Craft Advisory until 1 AM EST Monday for ANZ331-332-340-
     355.
     Small Craft Advisory until 10 PM EST this evening for ANZ335-
     338-345.
     Small Craft Advisory until 6 AM EST Monday for ANZ350-353.

&&

$$

SYNOPSIS...JC/DR
NEAR TERM...JC
SHORT TERM...JC
LONG TERM...DR
AVIATION...DR
MARINE...JC/DR
HYDROLOGY...JC/DR
