631 
FXUS61 KOKX 091926
AFDOKX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service New York NY
326 PM EDT Mon Jun 9 2025

.SYNOPSIS...
A wave of low pressure will lift a frontal boundary north through 
the area tonight into Tuesday morning, with a cold front following
Tuesday evening. High pressure then builds in on Wednesday and 
remains near the region through Thursday. Meanwhile low pressure 
passing well to the north will send a cold front through the 
region late Thursday night into early Friday. The front then 
becomes nearly stationary into the beginning of next week, with a 
series of lows moving along the stalled front.

&&

.NEAR TERM /THROUGH TUESDAY/...
Heights gradually fall aloft today as a broad upper level trough 
approaches. At the surface, a wave of low pressure is approaching 
from the south along a frontal boundary. This boundary will move 
north through the area tonight into Tuesday morning.

Shower activity is ongoing mainly in the Lower Hudson Valley. This 
activity should continue to decrease through the afternoon and 
evening as an embedded shortwave moves east of the area. However, 
given the easterly flow and weak overall lift, some drizzle and
or sprinkle activity could continue through the night. Also, in
combination with the onshore component of the flow, the 
pressure gradient weakens quite a bit tonight. This gives 
increased confidence in fog, especially because some is being 
observed along the coast already. Difficult to say at this time 
exactly how low the visibility will get, but dense fog is 
definitely not out of the question.

The main show in the near term will be heavy downpours Tuesday
morning into the early afternoon. The aforementioned broad 
upper level trough continues approaching and more embedded 
shortwaves will move into the area. By this time, the frontal 
boundary will be north of the area and pwats across the southern
half of the area will surge to 1.75 to 1.90 inches. According 
to SPC Sounding Climatology, this is well above the 90th 
percentile for June 10th and right around the daily max that has
been observed. Along with this available moisture, there is 
also deep lift with continued falling height and an upper level 
jet streak placing us right under the right rear quadrant. All 
of this will lead to widespread moderate showers with embedded 
heavy downpours. Timing for this is mainly 5am to 1pm for NYC 
north and west and then 7am to 4pm for locations north and east 
of NYC. At this time there is just an isolated threat for flash
flooding, with the main threat being minor poor drainage
flooding. See Hydrology section below. Have lowered thunder 
chances down to slight chance with the morning activity. All 
instability appears to be elevated and weak and really only 
expecting some isolated rumbles of thunder. Additionally, the 
bulk of the CAPE profile looks to be below -10C.

The rest of the day then looks mostly dry, with maybe some
lingering isolated lighter showers. There will however likely 
be isolated showers/thunderstorms when the cold front moves 
through in the evening. This will depend on how well we can 
clear out and how unstable we can get in the afternoon ahead of 
the front. The CAMs are hinting at clearing out enough and even 
reaching 500-1000 J/kg of MLCAPE in the Lower Hudson Valley. 
This aligns with the model reflectivity fields showing a few 
cells pop up along the cold front, also mainly in the Lower 
Hudson Valley. This activity should be really isolated and the 
lack of moisture will likely work against development. Pwats 
drop pretty quick in the afternoon once the morning showers move
east. By 00z pwats likely drop down to 1 inch or lower. At this
time severe weather is not expected, but given decent shear it 
can not be completely ruled out yet.

&&

.SHORT TERM /TUESDAY NIGHT THROUGH WEDNESDAY/...
High pressure gradually builds in thereafter leading to dry 
conditions and a warming trend. The flow aloft becomes zonal 
with some slight height rises. Stuck close to the NBM for this 
period, with just a slight upward adjustment with temperatures 
for the interior on Wednesday. Also lowered Td a bit given the 
NBM high bias for drier regimes.

&&

.LONG TERM /WEDNESDAY NIGHT THROUGH MONDAY/...
The long term forecast period will be dominated by a mid and upper 
level trough, mainly across eastern Canada, and into Northern New 
England, with nearly zonal flow across the Midwest, and into the 
Northeast, and Mid Atlantic region. Global guidance is fairly 
similar through the extended period. A cold front is forecast to 
move through the region late Thursday night into early Friday 
morning, and then become nearly stationary to the south of the area, 
through the Mid Atlantic region and the Delmarva, into early next 
week. There is some uncertainty as to how far south the frontal 
boundary will setup. The will affect the track of waves of low 
pressure that are forecast to track along the boundary. And some 
guidance that the front may drift farther south late in the weekend 
into early next week. Also, the placement of the boundary will 
affect temperatures, mainly Saturday through Monday, with more 
uncertainty in highs and low seen in the spread of possibilities with 
the NBM guidance. As a result of the uncertainty, and no targets of 
opportunity, have stayed close to the NBM deterministic
guidance.

&&

.AVIATION /19Z MONDAY THROUGH SATURDAY/...
Predominantly LIFR-IFR conditions are expected to persist 
overnight in response to a warm frontal boundary very slowly 
moving through the area. Persistent light onshore flow will 
also contribute to the development of fog overnight, possibly 
dense with visibilities 1/2 SM or less.

Showers and thunderstorms are then expected to develop right
around the morning push moving from west to east, with the
heaviest activity between about 14-18Z. Rainfall may be heavy at
times maintaining reduced visibilities across the airspace. As
the activity diminishes into the afternoon, ceilings and
visibilities will gradually improve to MVFR-VFR. A cold front 
then approaches later in the evening, but convective activity is
not expected to be as widespread.

Winds will primarily be light from the east to east-southeast
until the front approaches from the west Tuesday evening,
allowing winds to veer to the west-southwest. Occasional gusts
may be possible through 20-21Z this evening for LGA, ISP, BDR,
and GON.

     NY Metro (KEWR/KLGA/KJFK/KTEB) TAF Uncertainty... 

Amendments possible throughout the entire TAF period for changing 
flight categories especially with ongoing shower and drizzle activity.


.OUTLOOK FOR 18Z WEDNESDAY THROUGH SATURDAY... 

Wednesday - Thursday: VFR with gusty W flow. 

Friday - Saturday: VFR except in scattered showers and 
thunderstorms.


Detailed information, including hourly TAF wind component forecasts, 
can be found at: https:/www.weather.gov/zny/n90

&&

.MARINE...
A Dense Fog Advisory has been issued for all waters as 
confidence in 1 mile or less visibilities has increased. For 
now, the hazard is in effect until 6AM Tuesday morning, but it 
may need to be extended.

Winds and waves likely remain below Small Craft Advisory criteria 
through Wednesday. There is a brief period late Tuesday night into 
Wednesday morning where the eastern ocean waters could see 5 ft 
seas.

With a weak pressure gradient force expected across the forecast 
waters, as a frontal boundary remains in the vicinity of the ocean 
waters, winds and seas are expected to remain below SCA levels.

&&

.HYDROLOGY...
Showers and thunderstorms Tuesday morning through the early 
afternoon will bring moderate to locally heavy downpours to the 
area. While average total rainfall is expected to be between 
0.50 and 1.00 inches, any isolated stronger shower or 
thunderstorm has the potential to put down 0.75 to 1 inch in an 
hour. The WPC continues to highlight the area in a marginal risk
and the biggest threat is minor urban and poor drainage 
flooding, with an isolated threat for flash flooding.

No hydrologic impacts are expected Tuesday night through next 
Monday.

&&

.TIDES/COASTAL FLOODING...
A moderate risk of rip current development remains through this
evening.

For the ocean beaches the moderate risk for the development of 
rip currents remains for Tuesday. However, with increasing south
to southwest winds and building surf, the risk may be increased
to high.

For Wednesday: the moderate rip current development risk 
remains for the ocean beaches of New York City, and Nassau 
county. There is a chance that the threat increases to high for 
the Nassau ocean beaches with increasing southerly flow. And 
for the Suffolk county ocean beaches the rip current risk is 
forecast to be high.

&&

.OKX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CT...None.
NY...None.
NJ...None.
MARINE...Dense Fog Advisory until 6 AM EDT Tuesday for ANZ331-332-335-
     338-340-345-350-353-355.

&&

$$

SYNOPSIS...MET/JT
NEAR TERM...JT
SHORT TERM...JT
LONG TERM...MET
AVIATION...MD
MARINE...MET/JT
HYDROLOGY...MET/JT
TIDES/COASTAL FLOODING...MET
