680 
FXUS61 KOKX 070320
AFDOKX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service New York NY
1120 PM EDT Fri Jun 6 2025

.SYNOPSIS...
A cold front slowly approaches from the west tonight, while a weak
low passes to the southeast. The cold front passes through the
area Saturday evening. Weak high pressure then briefly follows 
for Sunday followed by an area of low pressure passing to the 
south and east Sunday night into Monday. A slow moving frontal 
system will then work across the area Tuesday into early 
Wednesday. High pressure returns later in the day Wednesday and 
remains near the region through Friday.

&&

.NEAR TERM /UNTIL 6 AM SATURDAY MORNING/...
Residual showers remain possible through the night as 
convective debris approaches from the west. Some CAMs also 
indicate that a redevelopment of some showers and possibly an 
isolated storm is possible for eastern coastal areas as a weak 
surface low moves by late tonight, but fairly uncertain in that 
occurrence. Left chance PoPs to indicate the potential for some 
showers tonight. Lows tonight will be in the 60s.

Ample low level moisture will also bring the possibility of low 
stratus or fog development, mainly for the coast.

&&

.SHORT TERM /6 AM SATURDAY MORNING THROUGH SATURDAY NIGHT/...
The cold front continues to make its way into the area by Saturday 
morning, though ample cloud cover is expected to limit the amount of 
instability that develops on Saturday. Scattered showers remain 
possible Saturday morning which may expand and grow upscale into the 
thunderstorms into the late morning and afternoon. Coverage should 
be more widespread than Friday given the proximity of the forcing 
despite less instability. Any hydrologic concerns should be fairly 
localized as well with storms possibly producing rainfall rates on 
the order of 1" per hour. Highs on Saturday will be in the middle to 
upper 70s.

Showers and storms move eastward off the coast by evening while 
dissipating. The cold front will slowly make its way through the 
area so that residual showers are possible Saturday evening and 
night, mainly before midnight. Lows will be in the upper 50s to 
middle 60s.

&&

.LONG TERM /SUNDAY THROUGH FRIDAY/...
Overall, not seeing a whole lot change in the extended period 
with a broad upper trough extending from the Upper Midwest to 
the East Coast. Shortwave ridging embedded within the mean upper
flow will move through the area on Sunday with weak high 
pressure at the surface. The trend supports some sun the first 
half of the day with mid and high level clouds streaming in from
the SW due to large scale warm advection. Blended in some 
CONSALL with the NBM to show this. 12Z guidance is also 
supporting this trend. 

As the upper low/trough descends across the Upper Midwest and
Great Lakes Sunday night into Monday, the backing upper flow 
will steer a weak wave of low pressure along the Mid Atlantic 
coast to the south and east of the area. For the time, there is 
a chance of rain Sunday into Monday, highest at night. There 
remains some uncertainty with the low track with the ECMWF 
showing some convection to the north of the low track across the
area. This looks to be more a result of the large scale warm 
advection ahead of the digging upper trough. In addition, the 
low itself could maintain enough low-level ridging across the 
northeast to limit rain chances. Sunday could very well be dry. 
Behind the low, Monday is also looking mainly dry with chances 
of showers/embedded thunder increasing Monday night into Tuesday
as a frontal system approaches from the southwest. While the 
deep-layered SW flow and wind shear increases across the area, 
an onshore E/SE flow ahead of the warm front keeps the low- 
levels stable with any instability elevated initially. Whether 
or not the area can warm sector and destabilize ahead of the 
cold front Tuesday afternoon/evening remains to be seen. The 
best chance for rain will be Tuesday into Tuesday evening. The
cold front passes through Tuesday night.

The upper trough lifts out Wednesday with warming heights aloft
and high pressure for the end of the week. 

Sunday through Tuesday will mainly feature weak onshore flow, 
intervals of clouds, and rain chances. This will keep daytime 
highs mainly in the 70s with lows warming into the lower 60s 
during this time. Humidity will be on the rise as well. 
Temperatures will warm Wednesday through Friday with a W/SW flow
and building heights aloft.

&&

.AVIATION /04Z SATURDAY THROUGH WEDNESDAY/...
 frontal system continues to approach tonight and will slowly move 
across the terminals on Saturday. 

VFR to start for NYC and Lower Hudson Valley terminals with LIFR 
developing across eastern Long Island and coastal southeast 
Connecticut. The lower conditions should expand overnight with IFR, 
locally LIFR, at all sites by late tonight into early Saturday 
morning. Conditions should start improving after 12z with a return 
to MVFR/VFR at NYC terminals on northwest mid to late morning. IFR- 
MVFR may persist into the afternoon across Long Island and southern 
Connecticut terminals.

An isolated shower cannot be ruled out tonight, mainly north and 
west of the NYC metro. Showers should become more widespread late 
Saturday morning into the afternoon. There is also a chance of a few 
thunderstorms. Have included mention of thunder in a PROB30 for now. 
However, it is entirely possible for any thunder to be isolated. 
Showers should start diminishing by early Saturday evening.

Winds will continue to weaken overnight becoming light and variable. 
Confidence in wind direction on Saturday is low due very weak flow 
and proximity of the frontal boundary. Winds may become SW late 
morning/early afternoon and then shift to the NW-N as the boundary 
starts moving across the area mid afternoon into the evening. There 
is also a chance winds remain variable around 5 kt for much of the 
day.

 ...NY Metro (KEWR/KLGA/KJFK/KTEB) TAF Uncertainty...

Amendments likely for changing flight categories overnight into 
early Saturday morning. Low chance for LIFR at KJFK 08z-12z.

Amendments likely for timing of showers and potential thunderstorms 
on Saturday. Any thunderstorm could remain isolated. 

Low confidence wind direction forecast Saturday afternoon. 

.OUTLOOK FOR 00Z SUNDAY THROUGH WEDNESDAY... 

Saturday Night: Chance for MVFR/IFR, mainly east of NYC metro. 

Sunday: Mainly VFR. Chance of showers late in the day and at night.

Monday: Mainly VFR. Chance of showers and MVFR at night.

Tuesday: MVFR or lower possible. Showers likely with a chance of 
thunderstorms, mainly in the afternoon and evening.

Wednesday: Mainly VFR. 

Detailed information, including hourly TAF wind component forecasts, 
can be found at: https:/www.weather.gov/zny/n90

&&

.MARINE...
Generally sub-SCA conditions are expected. Wave heights are expected 
to slightly increase late tonight and into Saturday, possibly
getting around 5 feet on the ocean. If confidence in 5 foot 
wave heights increases, a SCA may be needed on the ocean zones 
Saturday. 

Thereafter, expect sub-advisory conditions through Tuesday. Waves of
low pressure passing to the south and a southerly swell will keep
seas on the ocean 3 to 4 ft. Chances increase for marginal SCA 
conditions for seas around 5 ft Tuesday night into Wednesday. 
Seas should then fall below SCA conditions on Thursday.

&&

.HYDROLOGY...
Rain amounts overnight should generally be light and under a
tenth of an inch. There is the potential for up to half an inch
of rainfall Saturday as frontal system moves through the area. 
The higher amounts will more likely occur over the Lower Hudson
Valley. While widespread hydrologic issues aren't expected, 
localized urban or street flooding is possible.

No widespread hydrologic impacts otherwise for Saturday night through 
Monday. 

Showers and thunderstorms Tuesday into Tuesday night may produce at 
least minor nuisance flooding. Low confidence at this time regarding 
potential impacts this far ahead in time.

&&

.TIDES/COASTAL FLOODING...
A building SSE swell will increase to 5 ft 8-9S on Saturday.
This is expected to produce 3 to 5 ft breakers in the surf 
zone and increase the rip current risk to high. Thus, a High 
Rip Current Risk is in effect Saturday for all locations along 
the oceanfront.

Swells diminish some on Sunday. A moderate rip current risk is
forecast at this time.

&&

.OKX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CT...None.
NY...High Risk for Rip Currents from 6 AM EDT Saturday through Saturday 
     evening for NYZ075-080-081-178-179.
NJ...None.
MARINE...None.

&&

$$

SYNOPSIS...DW/MW
NEAR TERM...DW/MW
SHORT TERM...MW
LONG TERM...DW
AVIATION...DS
MARINE...DW/MW
HYDROLOGY...DW/MW
TIDES/COASTAL FLOODING...
