674 
FXUS61 KOKX 041950
AFDOKX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service New York NY
350 PM EDT Mon Aug 4 2025

.SYNOPSIS...
High pressure remains in control into the weekend.

&&

.NEAR TERM /UNTIL 6 AM TUESDAY MORNING/...
Heights will continue to gradually build along the eastern
seaboard through mid week, while surface high pressure
strengthens across eastern Canada. Hazy conditions due to smoke
from wildfires across western Canada will continue, however, 
not expecting any significant reduction to surface visibility.

Lows tonight will be close to normal in the 60s to around 70.
The Pine Barrens region of LI has radiated well the last couple
of nights and has been poorly resolved by the NBM. Blended with
GFS/NAM MOS which have done better. Some high clouds filtering
in from the SW should have minimal impact.

&&

.SHORT TERM /6 AM TUESDAY MORNING THROUGH WEDNESDAY/...
With upper level ridging along the eastern seaboard and a weak
trough across the Ohio and Tennessee Valleys, expect some
increase in high clouds through the period. NBM increases 
clouds so much so that skies are forecast to go mostly cloudy 
Tuesday night into Wednesday. 12Z GFS shows high RH values in 
model time height cross sections across the area. This will 
likely limit the extent of radiational cooling at night and 
heating during the daytime. Any showers should remain north 
across the higher elevations of New England. In addition, with 
high pressure strengthening to the north across eastern Canada 
during this time, east-northeast winds Tuesday night into 
Wednesday will allow cooler maritime air to filter across the 
area. 

HiRes models also continue to support some smoke across the 
area, but mainly confined aloft. This should keep the area hazy 
into Tuesday. Improvements are expected by midweek, especially 
near the surface due to an easterly flow.

Highs Tuesday will be similar to what we saw Monday, in the mid
to upper 80s away from the immediate coastline. This is near
normal. Lows will in general be a touch warmer, in the 60s to 
around 70.

&&

.LONG TERM /WEDNESDAY NIGHT THROUGH MONDAY/...
A decent stretch of sensible weather is in store as global models 
advertise persistent sfc high pressure and a building upper ridge 
through much of the period. 

By Monday, the ridge aloft should start to break down as an upper 
trough approaches from the west. Temps on Mon could reach the upper 
80s/lower 90s, with dewpoints rising to the upper 60s/lower 70s, 
yielding heat index values in the lower 90s. The combo of tropical 
moisture, lift from the approaching upper trough, and some sfc-based 
instability could lead to some afternoon showers and perhaps a tstm 
mainly west of NYC.

&&

.AVIATION /20Z MONDAY THROUGH SATURDAY/...
High pressure remains over the region through the TAF period.

Mainly VFR. Confidence has decreased in smoke/haze being dense
enough to lower vsbys to MVFR. Have removed from TAF and left
6SM HZ. However, briefly lowering to MVFR vsby is still
possible, mainly this afternoon.

Sea breezes today. Winds become light and variable once again 
tonight. Late morning/early afternoon on Tuesday the synoptic
flow becomes southeasterly.

    NY Metro (KEWR/KLGA/KJFK/KTEB) TAF Uncertainty...

Wind shift/sea breeze timing may be off by an hour or so today.

Confidence is decreasing in MVFR vsby from smoke/haze. More
confidence in VFR vsby. Brief lowering to MVFR is still 
possible this afternoon.

Slant range visibility restrictions likely with any smoke. 

.OUTLOOK FOR 18Z TUESDAY THROUGH SATURDAY... 

Tuesday Afternoon: Mainly VFR. Vsby restrictions to MVFR from 
smoke still possible.

Wednesday-Saturday: VFR.

Detailed information, including hourly TAF wind component forecasts, 
can be found at: https:/www.weather.gov/zny/n90

&&

.MARINE...
Sub-SCA conditions are expected through at least Wednesday 
morning. An easterly swell generated from low pressure out in 
the western Atlantic (Tropical Storm Dexter) will gradually 
build through the period with seas building to around 4 ft on 
Wednesday. Long period easterly swell will likely keep seas on 
the ocean around 4 ft into Friday. Combined seas may approach 5
ft on the outermost ocean waters daytime Thu. The swell should 
diminish to 3 ft from late Fri night into Sat.

&&

.HYDROLOGY...
There are no hydrologic concerns through the weekend.

&&

.TIDES/COASTAL FLOODING...
The pressure gradient remains weak today. However, the pressure
gradient does steepen a bit for Tuesday with low pressure well 
out in the Atlantic and a strengthening high pressure area 
moving across the Canadian Maritimes. 

Lower waves, near 1 to 2 ft, and light winds keep a low rip current 
risk for the ocean beaches today. The easterly winds Tuesday 
could very well reach up to around 10 kt in the afternoon and 
with the developing fetch and slightly building waves, to near 3
ft, the rip current risk is moderate for the ocean beaches 
Tuesday.

&&

.OKX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CT...Air Quality Alert until 11 PM EDT this evening for CTZ005>012.
NY...Air Quality Alert until midnight EDT tonight for NYZ067>075-
     078>081-176>179.
NJ...Air Quality Alert until 11 PM EDT this evening for NJZ004-006-
     103>108.
MARINE...None.

&&

$$

SYNOPSIS...DW
NEAR TERM...DW
SHORT TERM...DW
LONG TERM...BG
AVIATION...JT
MARINE...BG/DW
HYDROLOGY...BG/DW
TIDES/COASTAL FLOODING...
