761 
FXUS61 KOKX 030715
AFDOKX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service New York NY
315 AM EDT Thu Jul 3 2025

.SYNOPSIS...
A Canadian cold front approaches and passes this afternoon into
evening. High pressure builds in behind the front tonight through 
Friday night, then offshore for Saturday into Saturday night. A 
cold front approaches from the Great Lakes Sunday into Monday, 
passing slowly across the area Tuesday or even stalling in close 
proximity.

&&

.NEAR TERM /THROUGH TONIGHT/...
Some fog has advected in over eastern coastal areas. This will
lead to areas of 1 mi visibility with pockets of patchy dense
fog through daybreak into mid-morning before clearing. 

An upper-level polar low dives southeast through western Quebec 
today into tonight with its associated 1 std deep shortwave trough 
passing the area this afternoon & evening with a Canadian cold 
front. 

Model soundings show a well-mixed environment today. Mainly sunny 
skies are expected other than some lingering partly sunny skies for 
far eastern locales from a stalled front that washes out east of the 
area over the ocean early today. Light offshore flow in a sunny, 
well-mixed environment should allow temperatures to warm into 
the upper-80s for most with some spots at or just above 90 this 
afternoon in NE NJ and the NYC metro area.

A warm, sunny, well-mixed environment in the early afternoon today 
will leave us well set for an active afternoon and evening of 
showers and thunderstorms. A Canadian cold front will pass the area 
mid-afternoon into early evening, providing lift for shower and 
thunderstorm development along with shortwave energy passing aloft. 
PWATs along and ahead of the front will be suitable rain to develop. 

00Z CAMs are showing an unstable environment with good SBCAPE values 
and acceptable MLCAPE values for surface based convection along the 
passing cold front. With 35-50 kts of mainly unidirectional shear, 
any thunderstorms that do develop, could see scattered instances of 
strong to damaging wind gusts in the form of squall lines or bowing 
segments along the cold front. Low level lapse rates look potent. 
Despite the cap breaking just before midday, the mid-level lapse 
rates look too low for most of the morning and early afternoon for 
thunderstorm development. They do eventually climb to marginal 
values (6.5-6.9 C/km) with the approaching front helping with storm 
initiation in the mid/late afternoon to early evening. Given this, 
most storms will likely develop along the cold front rather than 
well ahead of it. 

00Z CAMs have showers and thunderstorms timed to start around midday 
to our west, entering our area with the cold front 2-4 pm for NW 
interior locales then follow the cold front through the area west-to-
east, exiting east by 7-9 pm. SPC has the entire area under a Slight 
Risk for severe thunderstorms. The primary risk will be for damaging 
winds, but isolated occurrences of hail can not be ruled out. 
N&W of NYC there may be scattered instances of strong to 
damaging winds, but as the line of storms track east with the 
cold front in the early evening strong to damaging winds may 
become more isolated.

Following FROPA this evening, clouds clear by early in the night as 
cooler/drier Canadian air gets advected in, aided by the upper-level 
trough axis centering over the area. Lows will be in the mid-60s for 
coastal locations, upper-60s to low-70s in urbanized areas of 
NE NJ, NYC, and Nassau counties, and drop into the low-60s to 
upper-50s in interior locations.

&&

.SHORT TERM /FRIDAY THROUGH SATURDAY NIGHT/...
The upper-level trough axis shifts east on Friday and completely 
exits east by Friday night. At the same time, an upper-level 
ridge builds in from the west Friday through Saturday night. At 
the surface, high pressure builds in from the west Friday into 
Friday night, passing east offshore, but remaining in control, 
Saturday into Saturday night. 

Friday through Saturday will be dry and mainly sunny given 
widespread subsidence. Temperatures will be close to just above 
climatological norms with highs in the 80s and lows in the upper-50s 
to near 70. 

Ideal conditions are expected for Independence Day celebrations. 
Sunny, dry, warm weather for afternoon activities with temperatures 
falling into the 70s under clear skies in the evening.

&&

.LONG TERM /SUNDAY THROUGH WEDNESDAY/...
No significant changes were made to the extended forecast and 
stuck close to the NBM/previous Forecast.

Key Points:

* Warm and humid conditions expected Sunday and Monday .
* A weak cold front moves into the area on Tuesday with a chance of 
  showers and thunderstorms

High pressure both aloft and at the surface will slide offshore 
Sunday and Monday. With an approaching upper trough trough over the 
Great Lakes Sunday into early next week, vertical temperatures 
profiles will be on the rise with 85h temps near 18C by Monday. In 
addition, a prolonged period of southerly flow will result in 
gradually increase humidity during this time. 

A weak cold front associated with the aforementioned upper trough 
approaches late Monday into Tuesday with increasing chances of 
showers and thunderstorms. Environment is weakly sheared, but 
moderately unstable ahead of the front. There is some uncertainty as 
to when the front pushes through, or if it simply washes out in 
close proximity Tuesday into Wednesday. This is reflected in some 
increasing spread for temperatures between the 25th and 75th 
percentiles. Once again, the NBM deterministic temperatures are 
generally at or below the 25th percentile during the forecast
period.

&&

.AVIATION /07Z THURSDAY THROUGH MONDAY/...
A cold front will approach this afternoon and move across the area 
this evening and overnight.

VFR to start. LIFR cigs are likely early this morning at KGON and 
KISP and may also impact KBDR/KJFK. 

SW winds may go light and variable for a few hours, before veering 
NW toward daybreak, then backing SW once again into late morning. 
Speeds increase to 10 kt, with gusts toward 20 kt possible after 
18Z, though may be more occasional at some sites. Risk for TSRA late 
afternoon and early eve, mainly 20Z to 00Z Fri. Any TSRA could 
produce brief IFR conditions. Drier and VFR conditions expected 
tonight.

 ...NY Metro (KEWR/KLGA/KJFK/KTEB) TAF Uncertainty...

Can not rule out low cigs reaching KJFK early this morning.

Gusts 20 kt possible this afternoon, may be more occasional.

Timing of TSRA may be off by an hour or two.

.OUTLOOK FOR 06Z FRIDAY THROUGH MONDAY... 

Thursday night: VFR conditions. 

Friday: VFR. NW winds G15-18kt. 

Saturday through Monday: VFR. 

Detailed information, including hourly TAF wind component
forecasts, can be found at: https:/www.weather.gov/zny/n90

&&

.MARINE...
Sub-SCA conditions are expected on all waters under a weak pressure 
gradient through Friday night. Tstms may pose a hazard of strong
winds, lightning, heavy rain, and locally rough seas Thu 
aft/eve.

Sub-SCA conditions are expected this weekend into early next week. 
Southerly flow on the ocean waters Sunday into Monday will feature 
G15-20kt with seas generally around 3 ft, possibly as 4 ft late 
Monday.

&&

.HYDROLOGY...
No widespread hydrologic impacts anticipated through early next
week.

&&

.TIDES/COASTAL FLOODING...
A lingering southerly swell of 2-3 ft 6-7s will produce a moderate 
rip current risk on Thursday, and low on Friday. Surf looks to be 
around 2-3 ft Thursday and around 2 ft on Friday.

&&

.OKX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CT...None.
NY...None.
NJ...None.
MARINE...None.

&&

$$

SYNOPSIS...BR
NEAR TERM...BR
SHORT TERM...BR
LONG TERM...
AVIATION...BC
MARINE...BR
HYDROLOGY...BR
TIDES/COASTAL FLOODING...
