611 
FXUS61 KOKX 100545
AFDOKX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service New York NY
145 AM EDT Sun Aug 10 2025

.SYNOPSIS...
High pressure will remain in control through early this week.
The high will then slowly weaken over the region as a frontal 
system approaches mid week. The front will move through late in 
the week.

&&

.NEAR TERM /THROUGH TONIGHT/...
High pressure will remain in over the area through tonight.
Heights aloft will continue to rise as a high amplitude ridge
builds over the eastern US. 

Mostly clear conditions are expected through tonight. Slight 
adjustments have been made to lower dew points a few degrees 
this afternoon as the NBM has been running a bit high the last 
few days, especially in areas that typically lower in the 
afternoon with mixing. Otherwise, temperatures will continue to 
rise compared to recent days with highs reaching the middle to 
upper 80s for much of the area. A few of the typical warm spots 
in NE NJ may tough 90 degrees.

Made some slight adjustments to NBM low temperatures for 
tonight, especially across outlying areas and the Long Island 
Pine Barrens. These areas have been running several degrees 
lower the last few nights compared to the NBM. A MAV/MET blend 
looked more reasonable given recent these trends. Lows will 
range from the upper 50s for outlying areas and the Long Island 
Pine Barrens to the lower and middle 60s elsewhere. The NYC 
metro may not fall below the upper 60s. Some patchy river valley
fog is possible late tonight/early Monday morning. 

&&

.SHORT TERM /MONDAY THROUGH TUESDAY NIGHT/...
The high amplitude ridge will remain in place through Tuesday.
Surface high pressure drifts offshore on Monday and becomes more
of a Bermuda high by Tuesday. This pattern will continue the 
trend of warmer temperatures and slightly higher humidity levels
each day. A few clouds anticipated each day but overall skies 
will remain mostly clear.

NBM high temperatures look reasonable both Monday and Tuesday.
Much of the area will see highs in the upper 80s on Monday with
the warmest spots reaching the low 90s. Immediate coastal 
locations may remain in the lower to middle 80s with onshore 
flow influence. Highs on Tuesday looks to reach the upper 80s 
and lower 90s for much of the area with again coastal locations 
slightly cooler. Adjusted NBM dew points down slightly Monday 
afternoon given recent trends and this allows heat indices on 
Monday to be at or slightly below air temperatures. Dew points 
should begin rising on Tuesday but still end up in the lower to 
middle 60s in the afternoon. Max heat indices should end up in 
the upper 80s and lower 90s, with a few isolated spots 
potentially coming close to 95. 

Lows each night trend warmer with temperatures Tuesday night in the 
middle to upper 60s for most and lower 70s in the urban areas.

&&

.LONG TERM /WEDNESDAY THROUGH SATURDAY/...
No significant changes were made with this update. 

The high amplitude ridge will break down Wednesday into Thursday
as an upper trough slides across southeastern Canada. This will
allow a cold front to approach late Wednesday and move across 
the area on Thursday. The front should settle south and east of 
the area on Friday. A weak upper trough may then linger over the
region into early next weekend.

Wednesday continues to look like the warmest day of the week with 
temperatures in the upper 80s and lower 90s with some middle 90s in 
NE NJ. Higher humidity levels will likely yield heat indices in the 
lower to middle 90s. Potential continues to exist for heat indices 
to reach 95-99 in the warmest spots of NE NJ, NYC metro, Lower 
Hudson Valley, and portions of S CT. The latest NBM has trended 
slightly cooler on Thursday with dew points also a few degrees 
lower. This trend has yielded lower max heat indices with much of 
the area only peaking in the low 90s. Reaching the two day heat 
advisory criteria may be difficult if this trend persists.

Afternoon and evening showers and thunderstorms are possible 
Wednesday and Thursday. The chance is lower on Friday as the front 
pushes south and east of the area. 

&&

.AVIATION /06Z SUNDAY THROUGH THURSDAY/...
High pressure remains through the TAF period.

VFR. Light SW to variable winds before increasing from the
south at around 10kt late morning/early afternoon. Light SW to 
variable winds follow for tonight.

 ...NY Metro (KEWR/KLGA/KJFK/KTEB) TAF Uncertainty...

No unscheduled amendments expected..

.OUTLOOK FOR 06Z MONDAY THROUGH FRIDAY... 

Late tonight: VFR

Monday-Tuesday: VFR.

Wednesday: Mainly VFR with a late day/evening TSTM and sub-VFR 
possible.

Thursday: Mostly VFR with a chance of MVFR in showers/TSTM.

Friday: VFR.

Detailed information, including hourly TAF wind component 
forecasts, can be found at: https:/www.weather.gov/zny/n90

&&

.MARINE...
High pressure will lead to conditions below SCA levels through
the middle of the week. A weak area of low pressure well 
offshore may continue to bring an E swell the next several days,
but seas will remain below 5 ft.

&&

.HYDROLOGY...
There are no hydrologic concerns through next week.

&&

.TIDES/COASTAL FLOODING...
A moderate rip current risk remains through Monday evening at
Ocean beaches due to continued E-ESE swells with around 3 ft
waves and a 7-9 second period. 

&&

.OKX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CT...None.
NY...Air Quality Alert from 11 AM this morning to 11 PM EDT this 
     evening for NYZ069>075-176-178.
NJ...None.
MARINE...None.

&&

$$

SYNOPSIS...JP/DS
NEAR TERM...DS
SHORT TERM...DS
LONG TERM...JP/DS
AVIATION...JC
MARINE...JP/DS
HYDROLOGY...DS
TIDES/COASTAL FLOODING...
