869 
FXUS61 KOKX 102240
AFDOKX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service New York NY
540 PM EST Mon Feb 10 2025

.SYNOPSIS...
High pressure continues to build in tonight and passes offshore on 
Tuesday. Low pressure will pass south of the area Tuesday night. 
Another low pressure system moves through during Wednesday night 
into Thursday, followed by high pressure Friday into Saturday 
morning. A third low then impacts the weather Saturday afternoon 
through Sunday with high pressure building back in on Monday.

&&

.NEAR TERM /UNTIL 6 AM TUESDAY MORNING/...
The forecast is mainly on track. Minor updates made to hourly
temperatures and dewpoints for the evening hours.

Zonal flow continues aloft as high pressure builds over the area 
tonight. Even though winds weaken, mid and high level clouds moving 
in will likely dampen the effect of radiational cooling. If winds 
weaken quick enough early on, this may be the type of night 
where temperatures drop quick at first, and then become stable 
or slightly rise with clouds moving in. To account for the 
uncertainty, blended CONSMOS and some colder guidance with the 
NBM.

&&

.SHORT TERM /6 AM TUESDAY MORNING THROUGH WEDNESDAY/...
The flow aloft remains mostly zonal on Tuesday as high pressure 
shifts offshore. Aforementioned cloud cover will lower and become 
more widespread/thick as the column slowly saturates from the top 
down.

Tuesday night, a wave of low pressure will pass well south of 
Long Island, but bring some light snow accumulation the the 
area. Our area is on the northern edge of the expected 
precipitation shield, so southern locations are expected to 
receive more snowfall. Latest forecast has trended in up in QPF 
and snow amount for a few reasons. An upper level jet streak to 
our north has slowly been trending farther north, which places 
us under the right entrance region. Some guidance has also been 
trending stronger in addition to the northward shift. Given the 
support from the upper jet, the thinking is that QPF across much
of the guidance could be underdone. Did not make a major 
change, but have up to 0.20 inches of QPF across the southern 
half of the area. HREF QPF amounts look way underdone as the 
CAMs are likely struggling with the jet. The NAM is one of the 
highest with 0.30 inches, which is not completely out of the 
question, but before trending closer to those totals would like 
to see a little more support from other guidance. It is worth 
noting that the 18z NAM brings an enhanced area of 700mb 
frontogenesis closer to our area than previous runs and other 
guidance. This trend will need to be monitored because this 
would support higher QPF as well. Also went with higher SLRs 
than the previous forecast (around 13:1 average) which is 
leading to 2 to 2.5 inches across NYC, Long Island and portions 
of northeast NJ. Isolated 3 inch amounts are possible along the 
immediate south coast. Farther north totals will be closer to .5
inches to 1 inch and northern interior CT and Lower Hudson 
Valley likely see less than .5 inches.

Given the current totals, no headlines were issued. If QPF continues 
to trend up it is possible that a Winter Weather Advisory would be 
needed for Long Island, NYC and portions of northeast NJ.

As for timing, this will likely all be in the overnight period, with 
the highest chances being between 10pm and 5am. Confidence is high 
in this falling as all snow, with no other ptypes mixing in.

We dry out the rest of Wednesday, with just lingering snow chances 
in the morning. We do not get much of a break as PoP chances 
increase late Wednesday afternoon ahead of the next system.

&&

.LONG TERM /WEDNESDAY NIGHT THROUGH MONDAY/...
Primary low pressure center shifts from the Ohio Valley into the 
eastern Great Lakes Region Wednesday night before passing well to 
our north during Thursday. Meanwhile, a weaker secondary low center 
shifts just south of Long Island during Thursday morning. This will 
bring snow to the forecast area Wednesday evening, then as a warm 
nose aloft pushes in, the snow changes to a wintry mix before an 
eventual changeover to rain late Wednesday night through Thursday 
morning. Rain then tapers off late morning into the afternoon. 
Thermal profiles aloft among the various models differ with GFS 
continuing to be a cold outlier, particularly from approx 09-15z 
Thurs. Didn't want to completely discount the GFS, so did take it 
into some consideration regarding precip types. Right now it appears 
that a snow/sleet accumulation of 1-2 inches will occur for LI, NYC 
and right along the CT coast with 2-3 inches elsewhere. Light ice 
accumulations of up to a few hundredths of an inch expected outside 
of LI, NYC and the urban corridor of NE NJ. Advisories could 
eventually be needed for these areas that are expected to have an 
ice accumulation, with combined snow and ice presenting 
slippery/hazardous conditions. 

Dry and somewhat breezy Thursday night into Friday morning as high 
pressure builds in behind the departing storm. Its ridge axis shifts 
through here during Friday evening with light winds. Highs on Friday 
below normal in the lower and middle 30s. 

A stronger and wetter system is then anticipated to approach from 
the SW on Saturday before passing through or nearby to our NW during 
Sunday. Precip becomes likely Saturday afternoon into evening and 
probably ends by Sunday evening. Kept precip types simplified for 
the time being with rain, snow or a mix of the two. Too early to 
have much confidence in potential snow accumulations, but with that 
said, rain appears to be the dominant precip type with this
storm.

&&

.AVIATION /00Z TUESDAY THROUGH SATURDAY/...
High pressure continues to build over the terminals into tonight.
The high pressure weakens on Tuesday as low pressure develops across 
the southeast.

VFR through the TAF period with high pressure in control through 
Tuesday.

NW winds will begin weakening this evening, diminishing to around 5-
7 kt overnight. Outlying terminals will likely become light and 
variable. Winds Tuesday morning become SW and will be under 10 kt.

 ...NY Metro (KEWR/KLGA/KJFK/KTEB) TAF Uncertainty... 

Occasional gusts around 20 kt will end by 22z. 

.OUTLOOK FOR 18Z TUESDAY THROUGH SATURDAY... 

Tuesday Afternoon-Night: VFR afternoon, becoming IFR/LIFR at night 
in light snow especially across NYC metro and Long Island terminals. 

Wednesday: Lingering light snow ends early. VFR possible into 
afternoon. NE gusts 15-20 kt in the afternoon.

Wednesday Night-Thursday: Snow/wintry mix developing Wednesday 
evening with IFR/LIFR. Wintry mix becomes plain rain at the coast 
late, gradually becoming plain rain inland Thursday morning. NE 
gusts 15-20 kt Wednesday night.

Friday: VFR. NW wind gusts 15-20 kt during the day.

Saturday: VFR early. MVFR or lower possible with rain/snow mix near 
coast and snow inland late. 

Detailed information, including hourly TAF wind component forecasts, 
can be found at: https:/www.weather.gov/zny/n90

&&

.MARINE...
Sub-Small Craft Advisory conditions are expected on all waters 
through Tuesday night. E/NE winds increase on Wednesday and 
marginal Small Craft Advisory conditions are possible on the 
ocean waters with 25 kt gusts and 5 ft seas.

SCA conds expected on all waters Wednesday night, followed by a
brief lull Thursday morning as a weak low center passes nearby.
Offshore winds will increase in the afternoon, but advisory 
conditions might be limited to only the ocean waters. The 
pressure gradient then perhaps tightens enough Thursday night 
into Friday morning for all waters to have advisory-level gusts 
during the period. Winds and seas subside throughout the day 
Friday with sub- advisory conditions even on the ocean waters by
early evening. Southerly winds increase for Saturday, but 
conditions look to be short of advisory thresholds. A better 
chance of SCA conds arrives Saturday night.

&&

.HYDROLOGY...
At this time there are no hydrologic concerns through early next
week.

&&

.OKX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CT...None.
NY...None.
NJ...None.
MARINE...None.

&&

$$

SYNOPSIS...JC/JT
NEAR TERM...JT
SHORT TERM...JT
LONG TERM...JC
AVIATION...DS
MARINE...JC/JT
HYDROLOGY...JC/JT
