913 
FXUS61 KOKX 131943
AFDOKX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service New York NY
243 PM EST Mon Jan 13 2025

.SYNOPSIS...
Canadian low pressure passes north today into tonight bringing 
a cold front through late this afternoon into this evening. The
are will then remain in between low pressure to the east and 
high pressure to the west Tuesday through Wednesday. High pressure
will largely be control for the end of the week with the exception
of a weakening frontal system moving across the area Thursday. 
Another more potent frontal system impacts the region for the 
weekend.

&&

.NEAR TERM /THROUGH TONIGHT/...
Clouds increased across the region, lowered temperatures
slightly.

Expecting the clouds to remain abundant with the cold front
passing through this evening. 

Still remains a slight possibility of a quick very light rain
shower or snow shower late this afternoon into early this
evening. Otherwise, dry conditions are expected to prevail.

Some mid level negative vorticity advection late this evening
into overnight, will allow for some decrease to clouds. 

However, boundary layer remains mixed with cold air advection
steady through the night. Gusty winds will be occurring that
will mitigate radiational cooling. 

Used NBM range of lows, from upper teens to mid 20s for much of
the region. NYC Metro expected to have lows more in the upper
20s.


&&

.SHORT TERM /TUESDAY THROUGH WEDNESDAY/...
High pressure located to our SW slowly nudges into the area TUesday 
through Wednesday. Simultaneously, low pressure that passed to our 
north moves into the Canadian Maritimes and then offshore to our 
east through this same period. We'll remain sandwiched between the 
two opposing pressure systems under a tight pressure gradient. This 
means NW wind gusts 25-30 mph will remain persistent Tuesday through 
Wednesday.

Cold air advection on Tuesday will be supported by strong NW flow and 
a mid/upper-level trough that amplifies over the northeast on 
Tuesday and remaining nearby offshore on Wednesday. Highs Tuesday 
and Wednesday will remain near freezing (32F) to the mid-20s. Lows 
Tuesday night will be in the mid-teens to mid-20s.

Tuesday through Wednesday is expected to remain dry and mostly 
sunny. However, a period of increased cloud cover is likely Tuesday 
afternoon into Tuesday night with a passing surface trough.

&&

.LONG TERM /WEDNESDAY NIGHT THROUGH MONDAY/...
The last in a series of shortwave troughs will drop across the 
Northeast Thursday sending a dissipating frontal system across the 
area with little more than some cloud cover and the last piece of 
some cold air before a brief warmup ensues Friday into Saturday. The 
mean longwave trough over the east lifts out at this time with Pac 
Energy briefly breaking down the ridge across western Canada and the 
PAC NW. The latter of which along with an amplifying northern branch 
trough descending south from central Canada is expected to carve out 
a longwave trough encompassing much of the Lower 48 by the close of 
next weekend. Models do diverge somewhat with the timing of a 
stronger frontal system along the eastern side of this trough that 
will move off the eastern seaboard over the weekend. The question 
resides is this a more progressive frontal system with the 
possibility of some weak frontal waves, or does a stronger low pass 
to the west of the area like the 00Z GFS shows next Sunday. However, 
the 00Z GEFS shows no support for this deeper inland low and neither 
do the EPS and GEPS. Thus, see no reason at this time to deviate 
from the National Blend of Models (NBM), which supports a more 
progressive cold front moving through the area Saturday into 
Saturday night. Expect colder air to filter in for the second half 
of the weekend which looks to be the leading edge of an arctic 
airmass that drops south into the Central U.S. the following week. 
Have also maintained chance PoPs for the weekend with mainly rain 
for Saturday and possibly rain and/or snow Sunday with decreasing 
chances.

Temperatures will warm to above normal levels heading into Saturday 
before the aforementioned cold frontal passage brings in some cooler 
air Sunday.

&&

.AVIATION /20Z MONDAY THROUGH SATURDAY/...
A cold frontal passage occurs late this afternoon into early 
this evening.

VFR thru the TAF period.

Winds become W behind the front late this aftn, then all areas
around 290 true tngt and Tue. Speeds around 10kt ahead of the
front, then increasing winds into Tue with gusts to 30kt.

 ...NY Metro (KEWR/KLGA/KJFK/KTEB) TAF Uncertainty... 

Occasional WSW G15-20kt ahead of the cold front are possible
this afternoon. 

Cold frontal passage this afternoon may vary an hour or two 
from forecast timing (likely on the later side). Winds behind 
the front may vary from 270-290 until late tngt. 

.OUTLOOK FOR 18Z TUESDAY THROUGH SATURDAY...

Rest of Tuesday - Wednesday: VFR. NW winds 15G25kt. 

Wednesday night: VFR. NW winds G20kt in the evening. 

Thursday - Saturday: VFR.

Detailed information, including hourly TAF wind component forecasts, 
can be found at: https:/www.weather.gov/zny/n90

&&

.MARINE...
A cold front moves across this evening. Cold air advection will
allow for frequent gusts tonight through Tuesday. Pressure
gradient tightens between low pressure well north of the waters
and high pressure well southwest of the waters.

SCA already in effect across the ocean and is in effect through
the day Tuesday. Non-ocean zones have SCA go into effect
starting 6pm this evening and those continue through the day
Tuesday.

SCA conditions are likely to continue Tuesday night through 
Wednesday for all forecast waters. Ocean seas during this time 
are forecast to be near 5 to 7 ft. Gales will even be possible
for some time on the ocean Tuesday night.

A ridge of high pressure is forecast to move across the waters 
Wednesday night into Thursday morning with sub-SCA conditions. 
However, a dissipating frontal system moving through the area later 
in the day could produce a short period of marginal SCA conditions 
on the ocean waters. High pressure is then expected to follow on 
Friday with weakening winds and subsiding seas.

&&

.HYDROLOGY...
No hydrologic impacts expected through next weekend.

&&

.OKX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CT...None.
NY...None.
NJ...None.
MARINE...Small Craft Advisory from 6 PM this evening to 6 PM EST 
     Tuesday for ANZ331-332-335-338-340-345.
     Small Craft Advisory until 6 PM EST Tuesday for ANZ350-353-355.

&&

$$

SYNOPSIS...BR/DW
NEAR TERM...JM
SHORT TERM...BR
LONG TERM...DW
AVIATION...JMC
MARINE...JM/BR/DW
HYDROLOGY...BR/DW
