126 
FXUS61 KOKX 021806
AFDOKX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service New York NY
106 PM EST Thu Jan 2 2025

.SYNOPSIS...
Strong low pressure will move northward into the Canadian Maritimes 
today and then will retrograde into SE Canada tonight into Friday. A 
disturbance moves through Friday into Friday night with weak high 
pressure building in thereafter briefly for Saturday. High 
pressure will remain to the south and west this weekend while 
strong low pressure remains over Atlantic Canada. Another low 
will pass to the south through the Mid Atlantic region late 
Sunday night into Monday, followed again by high pressure 
remaining to the south and west and low pressure across eastern 
Canada.

&&

.NEAR TERM /THROUGH TONIGHT/...
The fcst is on track. Another windy day expected today into 
this evening. Wind gusts reaching up to 40 to 50 mph across the 
region, maximum gusts likely late morning through early evening 
with daytime mixing. The pressure gradient will be tight between
strong low pressure moving northward into the Canadian 
Maritimes and high pressure well to the southwest of the region.

In addition, with mid level positive vorticity advection with a
shortwave moving in, will have just enough moisture to give 
sprinkles or snow flurries to the region for some locations. 
The sprinkles or flurries will vary depending on temperatures 
and ensuing wet bulb cooling. 

High temperatures today from MOS consensus, mainly in the lower
40s.

More mid level zonal flow and leaning towards more negative
vorticity advection tonight. Mainly dry conditions are expected.
Boundary layer remains gusty, mitigating the low temperature
range, mainly ranging from lower to upper 20s. By late evening
and into overnight, expecting wind gusts to be decreasing more
with gusts more in the 30 to 40 mph range.

&&

.SHORT TERM /FRIDAY THROUGH SATURDAY NIGHT/...
More trough development expected in the mid levels Friday
through Friday night. A strong shortwave moves south of the
region Friday night.

For Saturday, shortwave activity and positive vorticity remain
active south of the region but may move near from the northwest
Saturday night into early Sunday. Overall mid level flow across
the region remains northwesterly.

At the surface, low pressure retrogrades more within SE Canada
Friday. However, another low moves across the Appalachians
Friday and then further develops offshore well southeast of the
local area Friday night. Then, weak high pressure briefly builds
in for Saturday into Saturday night.

Across the region, weather remains quite breezy and getting
progressively colder. Not expecting advisory level winds, more
in the 25 to 30 mph range for gusts. Forecast high temperatures
for Friday are mainly in the mid 30s to near 40 and are mainly in
the low to mid 30s for Saturday.

&&

.LONG TERM /SUNDAY THROUGH WEDNESDAY/...
Key Points:

* Cold with persistent NW flow through the period.

* Some light snow is possible on Monday as low pressure passes to 
  the south. 

The big picture aloft late this weekend shows high latitude 
blocking, with upper ridging across Greenland and a deep closed low 
not too far from 50N/50W, also split flow across the western CONUS 
with a broad upper ridge off the West Coast and a closed low moving 
eastward in the southern stream through the Plains states. 

Conds will be brisk/dry on Sunday with the area under a pressure 
gradient between high pressure off the south/west and strong low 
pressure over Atlantic Canada, then we should see at least a 
glancing blow from the southern stream sys late Sunday night into 
Mon. With northern stream energy remaining bottled up across Canada 
this sys should remain progressive/weaker and keep moving eastward 
through the Mid Atlantic region, close enough to forecast chance PoP 
for light snow accumulation mainly for the NYC metro area and Long 
Island for this time frame.

The ECMWF suggests only light accumulations at most, but the model 
has been trending slowly northward over the last several forecast 
cycles, which could open the door to a worst-case advy level 
snowfall for western Long Island through NYC metro and NE NJ, which 
is being shown by the ensemble 90th percentile forecast. At any 
rate, the axis of heavier snow with this system should remain 
well south. 

Dry/cold wx expected for Tue-Wed with persistent NW flow between 
high pressure off to the SW and persistent low pressure over eastern 
Canada.

&&

.AVIATION /18Z THURSDAY THROUGH TUESDAY/...
The region remains between low pressure to the north and east
and high pressure to the south and west. 

W flow 15-25kt with frequent gusts 25-35kt. Winds gradually 
diminish after 23Z-00Z but remain gusty. 

 ...NY Metro (KEWR/KLGA/KJFK/KTEB) TAF Uncertainty... 

Occasional gusts 35-40kt before 00z this evening.

OUTLOOK FOR 18Z FRIDAY THROUGH TUESDAY...

Friday PM: VFR. W gusts 20-25kt.

Saturday: VFR. WNW gusts 25-35kt.

Sunday: VFR. W gusts 20-25kt.

Monday: Chance of light snow. MVFR cond likely, IFR possible at
the NYC metros/KISP. 

Tuesday: VFR. WNW gusts 25-35kt.

Detailed information, including hourly TAF wind component
forecasts, can be found at: https:/www.weather.gov/zny/n90

&&

.MARINE...
Low water advisories issued for the low tide cycle late today 
into this evening. Blended TWL guidance suggests abnormally low
water levels of 2 to 2.5 ft below MLLW along parts of NY Harbor
and the western Sound. This could cause issues for moored boats
and shallow water navigation. 

Adjustments made to ocean gale warnings and some of the non-
ocean water gale warnings. They go more into tonight. 

By Friday, SCA conditions expected for most waters but NY Harbor
and Western LI Sound will be more marginal for SCA as gusts
there only reach near 20 kt.

For Friday night, briefly sub-SCA for all waters. Then, SCA 
conditions are forecast once again for all waters Saturday into 
Saturday night.

SCA cond on all waters daytime Sunday, with NW flow gusting to 
25-30 kt and ocean seas 4-7 ft, should gradually abate Sunday 
evening, with quiet cond on all waters late Sunday night into 
Mon as low pressure passes to the south. Minimal SCA cond likely
in the wake of this sys on the ocean, with NW flow once again 
gusting to 25 kt and ocean seas approaching 5 ft farther 
offshore.

&&

.HYDROLOGY...
No significant hydrologic issues anticipated.

&&

.TIDES/COASTAL FLOODING...
Water levels may approach 1.5-2 ft below MLLW across western
portions of NY Harbor, Long Island Sound, and the bays of Long
Island during this afternoon's low tide. This could cause 
localized low water issues for moored boats and shallow water 
navigation.

&&

.OKX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CT...Wind Advisory until 10 PM EST this evening for CTZ005>012.
NY...Wind Advisory until 10 PM EST this evening for NYZ067>075-
     078>081-176>179.
NJ...Wind Advisory until 10 PM EST this evening for NJZ002-004-006-
     103>108.
MARINE...Gale Warning until midnight EST tonight for ANZ331-335-340-345.
     Gale Warning until 4 AM EST Friday for ANZ332-350-353.
     Low Water Advisory from 7 PM to 9 PM EST this evening for 
     ANZ335.
     Gale Warning until 10 PM EST this evening for ANZ338.
     Low Water Advisory from 4 PM this afternoon to 6 PM EST this 
     evening for ANZ338.
     Gale Warning until 1 AM EST Friday for ANZ355.

&&

$$

SYNOPSIS...BG/JM
NEAR TERM...JMC/JM
SHORT TERM...JM
LONG TERM...BG
AVIATION...JC
MARINE...BG/JM
HYDROLOGY...BG/JM
TIDES/COASTAL FLOODING...
