692 
FXUS61 KOKX 220607
AFDOKX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service New York NY
207 AM EDT Tue Apr 22 2025

.SYNOPSIS...
A warm front moves into the region overnight, followed by a 
weakening cold front that stalls across the area Tuesday. High 
pressure then builds back in for Wednesday. High pressure 
remains over the region through Thursday night, followed by a 
frontal system Friday into Saturday. High pressure returns for 
the second half of the weekend.

&&

.NEAR TERM /UNTIL 6 AM THIS MORNING/...
A shortwave is currently tracking to the north of the area 
overnight as a highly amplifies ridge moves offshore. A warm 
front the Delmarva region moves into the region and becomes 
nearly stationary in the vicinity. Latest CAMS show a weakening
cold front moving into the area early in the morning, with the 
front becoming nearly parallel to the lower and upper flow. The 
front then stalls and looks to wash out over the eastern half of
the area late today into Tuesday night. Also, with the latest 
guidance and radar trends showing scattered to isolated shower 
activity for the overnight, have lowered probabilities 
considerably, and changed to coverage wording.

&&

.SHORT TERM /6 AM THIS MORNING THROUGH 6 PM WEDNESDAY/...
Key Messages: 

* Dry conditions and well above seasonable temps on Tuesday and
  Wednesday

Great Lakes closed low slides east through Ontario/Quebec on 
Tuesday into Wednesday while weakening. At the surface, a 
resultant weakening low pressure slides E through Quebec and 
Northern New England Tuesday into Tuesday Night, and thru the 
Canadian Maritimes on Wednesday. 

Locally, warm front pushes north Tuesday AM, with weakening cold 
front stalling over the area Tuesday. Secondary cold front crosses 
Tuesday Night with Canadian high pressure noses in from the NW on 
Wednesday. 

Drying conditions Tuesday with deep WSW flow. Morning stratus 
should give way to a veil of high clouds, deep mixing and still 
mild 850mb temps (10C dropping to 8c in the late aft), which 
will result in unseasonably warm temps (mid to upper 70s) for 
all but south and eastern coastal areas on gusty westerly flow. 
Temps should challenge the daily record high of 75F for KISP. 
Southern and eastern coastal areas could be into the mid 70s as
well (warmer than current forecast) if westerly flow is 
stronger than modeled, but with weakening cold front in the 
region this could allow for more backed (maritime) flow for 
these area. Leaned towards 50-75th percentile NBM based on 
downslope flow regime. Once again, NBM deterministic max T are 
generally running in the lowest 25th quartile, which appears low
based on above. 

Weak cold front sags south of the region Tuesday Night. With mixed 
low-levels and little change in airmass, continued mild conditions 
likely with lows in the mid to upper 40s for much of the area, lower 
50s NYC/NJ metro.

High pressure builds west and south of the region on Wednesday. NW 
flow to start the day will give way to afternoon sea breeze 
development as thermal troughing develops. Plenty of sunshine, 
filtered by a veil of high clouds, should allow temps to warm up 
quickly areawide before that with deep mixing towards 850 mb (7-9 
C). High temps should be able to climb into the upper 60s to lower 
70 for the coast before seabreeze development knocks temps back 
down, and lower to mid 70s for NYC/NJ metro and interior to the 
north of sea breeze. Leaned towards 50-75th percentile NBM based on 
weak offshore flow regime.

&&

.LONG TERM /WEDNESDAY NIGHT THROUGH MONDAY/...
The long term period starts off with high pressure over the region 
with dry conditions and mostly clear skies for Wednesday night and 
Thursday. The high starts to slide east Thursday night and Friday, 
with another shortwave/low pressure system approaching for Friday 
into Saturday. The surface low is expected to pass north of the 
region with its associated warm front moving through on Friday and 
cold front moving across the area during the day Saturday. 12Z 
global guidance still varies on timing with some models such as the 
12Z GFS having the front push through 15-18Z Saturday, while other 
models don't have it until after 00Z Sunday. This means the timing 
of likely POPs, chance for thunder, and Saturday's highs could still 
shift some from what is currently forecast. 

Overall, clouds will gradually increase Thursday night and early 
Friday, with POPs gradually increasing Friday afternoon. For now, 
looking at just some chance POPs Friday evening. POPs increase 
further after midnight Friday night into Saturday as a cold front 
approaches and moves across the region. POPs taper on Saturday night.

Mainly rain showers expected, but some instability along with lift 
from FROPA could lead to a few rumbles of thunder on Saturday. The 
chances for this will become more clear as the event nears. 

High pressure returns Sunday from the Great Lakes region under NW 
flow leading to dry weather and sunshine to end the weekend on.

Temperatures remain at or above normal for this time of year.

&&

.AVIATION /05Z TUESDAY THROUGH SATURDAY/...
A weak warm front lifts across the area this morning, while the
trailing cold front dissipates across the area. A secondary cold
front pushes through Tuesday evening.

Widespread MVFR with occasional IFR conditions through about
14Z, followed by improvement to VFR. KGON may take as long as 
17Z to improve to VFR. Chance of SHRA through about 10Z.

Light and variable winds across all but KISP, where it will
start off SSW 5-10kt. Winds veer to the SW toward daybreak with
the warm frontal passage, then veer to the W-WSW by late 
morning/early afternoon. KBDR and KGON may hold on to a hybrid 
seabreeze out of the SW until winds veer more in the afternoon
ahead of an approaching secondary cold front. Winds then become
NW-NNW 5-10kt after 00Z.

There is a brief chance of SW LLWS at the eastern terminals 
through about 09Z, with 2Kft winds 230 at around 40 kt. 

 ...NY Metro (KEWR/KLGA/KJFK/KTEB) TAF Uncertainty...

Best chance of showers to the east of NYC terminals.

IFR conditions could become prevailing through about 12Z.

Onset of W gusts later this morning may be delayed by 1-2 
hours.

.OUTLOOK FOR 06Z WEDNESDAY THROUGH SATURDAY...

Late Tuesday night through Thursday: VFR.

Friday: VFR during the day. A chance of MVFR and showers, at
night.

Saturday: MVFR or lower in showers. An isolated thunderstorm is 
possible.

Detailed information, including hourly TAF wind component forecasts, 
can be found at: https:/www.weather.gov/zny/n90

&&

.MARINE...
No changes to the winds and seas overnight into Tuesday.

Occasional gusts to 25kts are possible for a short period on the 
ocean waters in advance of a frontal system overnight, thus not
enough confidence for SCA.

Thereafter, otherwise conditions are expected to remain below SCA 
levels through Friday in a weak pressure regime. 

The next chance for SCA conditions will be Friday night into 
Saturday with a frontal system moving across the waters.

&&

.HYDROLOGY...
There are no hydrologic issues through next weekend.

&&

.OKX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CT...None.
NY...None.
NJ...None.
MARINE...None.

&&

$$

SYNOPSIS...BR/NV
NEAR TERM...JE/NV
SHORT TERM...NV
LONG TERM...BR
AVIATION...DW
MARINE...BR/MET/NV
HYDROLOGY...BR/NV
