012 
FXUS61 KOKX 241738
AFDOKX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service New York NY
1238 PM EST Fri Jan 24 2025

.SYNOPSIS...
A cold front moves through today. High pressure then builds in 
tonight into Saturday before moving offshore Saturday night. A 
cold front moves east of the region Sunday night. A series of 
cold fronts move across the region next week. Low pressure may 
impact the region sometime in the mid to late week.

&&

.NEAR TERM /UNTIL 6 PM THIS EVENING/...
The forecast remains on track with just some adjustments to
hourly temperatures, dewpoints and cloud coverage. Still 
expecting a dry forecast with the frontal passage later today 
but did increase the clouds above previously forecast. Max 
temperatures were kept the same as previously forecast.

An upper level shortwave over the Great Lakes region moves east
today, deamplifying as it does so. At the surface, a cold front
approaches and moves through late in the day into the evening 
hours. With upper level support weakening and not a lot of 
moisture to work with, expect this front will move through dry 
today. 

Temperatures will continue to run well below normal, with highs
in the warmest areas (the coast and into the NYC metro area)
only reaching to about freezing.

&&

.SHORT TERM /6 PM THIS EVENING THROUGH SUNDAY/...
The upper trough axis pushes east of the area tonight, allowing
for a more zonal flow to set up for Saturday and Saturday night
before the next upper level shortwave dives southeast from
southern Canada Saturday night and moves through the Northeast
on Sunday. High pressure pushes off the mid-Atlantic coast on
Saturday, allowing a surface cold front moves through late 
Sunday into Sunday night.

Dry conditions continue tonight through Sunday as there
continues to be little moisture to work with and lack of phasing
between the northern and southern jet streams. A very
progressive pattern will limit the availability of any
moisture. However, a stray rain or snow shower cannot be ruled
out with the cold front Sunday, as a stronger southerly flow
might bring in enough moisture in some very isolated areas.

Lows tonight and highs Saturday continue to be well below 
normal under renewed cold advection until about Saturday 
morning. Overnight lows tonight will dip into the single digits 
in the interior. With highs on Friday a couple of degrees warmer
than yesterday, do expect warmer overnight lows. Some isolated 
areas may dip below zero in the interior. Highs on Saturday will
be similar to Friday, in the upper 20s to lower 30s across the
entire forecast area. Sunday will see much warmer and near
seasonable levels for temperatures thanks to return southerly
flow from the offshore high.

&&

.LONG TERM /SUNDAY NIGHT THROUGH THURSDAY/...
A series of upper level shortwaves and associated frontal boundaries 
move across the region through the long term. The first will be 
Sunday night into Monday, followed by a second Tuesday night into 
Wednesday. Each of these systems should bring some cloud cover to 
the area, however there is not much moisture to work with, so many 
of these fronts will push across the area dry. 

Forecast models then differ a bit on the potential for a more robust 
upper level trough and associated surface low/cold front moving 
across the area late Wednesday into Thursday. This next feature may 
bring a round of precipitation and more notably, another shot of 
arctic air to the region. 

Overall, stuck somewhat close to the NBM guidance, however did 
increase POPs for the Wednesday afternoon/Wednesday night period. 
Will introduce some chance POPs, during the period with the 
deterministic 00z forecast models showing the wave of low pressure 
moving across or near the region. Felt that the NBM POPs were just 
too low and could not be used. 

Drier and colder conditions return to end the week.

High temperatures Monday are forecast to be in the middle and upper 
30s. Tuesday appears to be the warmest day of the week with highs 
ranging from the upper 30s to lower 40s. With cloud cover and precip 
chances, Wednesdays highs only reach the 30s. Thursday and Friday, 
temperatures remain below or right at the freezing mark.

&&

.AVIATION /18Z FRIDAY THROUGH WEDNESDAY/...
A cold front will move across the terminals late today followed
by high pressure building south of the area tonight into 
tomorrow.

VFR. 

WNW winds around 10kt become more NW by this evening. Occasional
gusts upwards of 20kt are possible through this afternoon, but
not frequent enough to include in the TAFs. Wind shifts to SW
tomorrow late morning into the early afternoon with gusts
upwards of 20kt.

 ...NY Metro (KEWR/KLGA/KJFK/KTEB) TAF Uncertainty...

Occasional gusts to 20kt possible today.

.OUTLOOK FOR 18Z SATURDAY THROUGH WEDNESDAY...

Saturday: VFR. 

Sunday-Tuesday: VFR. W-WSW gusts 20-25 kt.

Wednesday: MVFR or lower possible in any snow showers.

Detailed information, including hourly TAF wind component forecasts, 
can be found at: https:/www.weather.gov/zny/n90

&&

.MARINE...
A weak pressure gradient will lead to winds and seas below SCA 
levels through Saturday. A steepening pressure gradient Saturday 
night results in increasing SW winds and the next chance for SCA 
wind gusts and seas on the ocean. SCA conditions should then
continue on the ocean waters through Sunday.

Small craft conditions are expected to continue for a large portion 
of next week as a series of cold fronts move across the area.

&&

.HYDROLOGY...
No hydrologic issues expected through the middle of next week.

&&

.OKX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CT...None.
NY...None.
NJ...None.
MARINE...None.

&&

$$

SYNOPSIS...BC/JP
NEAR TERM...JM/JP
SHORT TERM...JP
LONG TERM...BC
AVIATION...MW
MARINE...BC/JP
HYDROLOGY...BC/JP
