263 
FXUS61 KOKX 170810
AFDOKX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service New York NY
410 AM EDT Mon Mar 17 2025

.SYNOPSIS...
A cold front moves off the coast today, with a large high pressure 
ridge gradually building across tonight. The high settles over the 
area Tuesday and Tuesday night and remains into Wednesday. A fast 
moving frontal system moves across Thursday into Thursday night. 
High pressure begins to build back in on Friday.

&&

.NEAR TERM /THROUGH TONIGHT/...
The moderate to heavy rain continues to push up from the south
early this morning as some peak localized hourly rainfall rates
have gotten to a half inch to three quarters of an inch an hour
for a few locations in CT and Eastern LI. Most max hourly 
rainfall rates however are closer to 0.4 to 0.5 inches per hour.
Ponding of poor drainage areas and localized urban and poor
drainage flooding will occur where the rain maxes out.
Convective elements have decreased some, but a rumble of thunder
and a few flashes of lightning remain possible, especially
further east through the morning commute.

The cold front gets through the metro this morning, then for far 
eastern sections towards midday. The steadier, more moderate to 
heavier rainfall is expected to get east of our far eastern portions 
of the CWA by 13-15z. However, with the boundary taking on more of 
anafrontal behavior and dry advection not really strengthening until 
later, look for some pockets of light rain for the late morning and 
into the afternoon for the majority of the area. The pressure 
gradient will be much weaker throughout a good portion of the day as 
waves of low pressure along the cold frontal boundary slowly pivot 
through. Once the boundary gets out towards far SNE a NNW flow at 
the sfc gets going some. Gusts look to return towards 19-20z or 
thereabouts across the western half of the area, then shortly 
thereafter across eastern portions. Clouds will hold throughout the 
day with periodic shower activity with a deep upper level trough 
axis still just off to the west and a strong southerly flow at 500 
mb. Look for temperatures into this afternoon to run about 5 to 10 
degrees above normal despite the cloud cover.

For this evening looks for the ongoing risk of showers mainly from 
the metro and east, with some partial clearing attempting to being 
across western portions. The upper level trough axis doesn't really 
get through until 6z or shortly thereafter. Clearing should ensue 
quickly from west to east behind the passage of the trough axis. 
With the trough axis being quite sharp it should serve as a good 
proxy and line of demarcation with respect to clearing. With the 
best cold advection taking late in the overnight into Tuesday 
morning this is when dew points make more of a move downward. Dew 
points by the Tue wake up will get through the 30s and mainly into 
the middle and upper 20s. This results in temperatures bottoming out 
primarily in the 30s across the region with clouds getting off the 
east end of LI towards shortly after sunrise. 

&&

.SHORT TERM /TUESDAY THROUGH TUESDAY NIGHT/...
Look for any clouds across far eastern sections to get off the coast 
during the morning. A rather expansive high pressure ridge will 
build in from the west. On a dry northerly flow look for complete 
sunshine and mild temperatures with enough of a synoptic flow to 
likely prevent any real widespread sea breeze / ocean diurnal 
induced wind. Look for mainly middle 50s to lower half of the 60s 
for daytime max temperatures, a good 10 degrees or so above normal 
in most places.

With the high settling right over the region Tuesday night look for 
clear skies and light to calm winds. This should result in a fair 
amount of radiational cooling. Lows will range from middle 30s 
across far northern interior and rural sections, to the middle 40s 
across much of the NYC metro.

&&

.LONG TERM /WEDNESDAY THROUGH SUNDAY/...
Key Points:

* Dry conditions will prevail Wednesday into Thursday morning, 
  and then again next weekend with temperatures mainly above 
  average.

* Showers become likely late Thursday and Thursday night along a 
  fast moving frontal system. 

* Breezy and cooler conditions briefly return Friday.
  
The modeling has remained relatively consistent over the last few 
days with the overall pattern progression into next weekend.
The upper trough that slowly moves overhead on Monday will slide 
offshore Tuesday morning. This is in response to a build upper 
ridge. The upper low is still expected to get trapped beneath the 
ridge over the western Atlantic into Wednesday. This will not 
directly impact our weather, but could enhance subsidence with the 
ridging aloft later Tuesday and Wednesday. The upper ridging pushes 
offshore on Thursday ahead of the next upper level trough, which 
likely lifts over the area Thursday night into Friday. The ensemble 
means then indicate a mostly zonal flow for next weekend. 

Surface high pressure will be in control to begin the period, before
moving offshore on Thursday. The aforementioned upper trough will
send a fast moving frontal system across the area late Thursday
into Thursday night. The latest model consensus indicates most of
the daytime Thursday will be dry with just a chance of showers 
late in the afternoon. The cold front sweeps across the area 
Thursday night with the likelihood of showers. Low pressure may 
develop along the front as it passes to our east and help add 
more lift and moisture for the continuation of showers into 
early Friday morning. Guidance has come into better agreement 
with this scenario, but differ on the intensity of the low. The 
progressive pattern would favor the low to quickly push off the 
New England coast Friday morning. The NBM probabilities for 
greater than an inch of rain in a 12 or 24 hour period Thursday 
into Thursday night remain low and under 10 percent, consistent 
with the speed of the system. The potential of low pressure on 
the front may bring a possibility of some wet snow flakes mixing
in well inland as the system pulls away and draws colder air 
southward. 

Breezy and cooler conditions are expected on Friday under strong 
cold advection and a W-NW flow. Temperatures look to remain in the 
mid and upper 40s for highs which are slightly below average for 
March 21st. Winds will likely gust 25-35 mph. The pressure gradient 
should relax Friday night with high pressure returning for the 
remainder of the weekend. Have kept the forecast dry next weekend 
with a mainly zonal flow aloft.

&&

.AVIATION /08Z MONDAY THROUGH FRIDAY/...
Cold front approaches form the west, moving thru the area later
this morning as a wave of low pressure develops along it. The 
frontal wave and cold front passes east in the afternoon.

Conditions vary across the region, with most either IFR or MVFR
as of 6Z Mon. KHPN and other coastal sites occasionally LIFR or
lower. Bands of showers are filling in from the south, bringing
several hours of IFR vsby in moderate to locally heavy rain 
early this morning, especially E of the NYC metros. S winds 
gusting up to 25-30 kt and LLWS (S flow 50-60 kt at FL020) 
persist through most of the overnight with this activity.

Showers gradually taper off through the mid to late morning, 
but conditions could remain IFR/LIFR as winds diminish and 
become variable with slow passage of the front and wave of low 
pressure. Improvement will be slow to occur, with MVFR from 
late morning into early afternoon at the NYC metros hanging on 
through the rest of the day. IFR cond may last at KBDR/KISP into
late afternoon and at KGON through the period. 

As the cold front and frontal wave move into the region, winds 
and gusts diminish later this morning, and likely go variable 
less than 10 kt. As the front passes east into the afternoon, 
winds shift to the W and then NW-N, gusting to 20-25 kt by late
day. Speeds lower tonight into Tuesday morning.

 ...NY Metro (KEWR/KLGA/KJFK/KTEB) TAF Uncertainty...

Unscheduled AMD likely to address changes in flight categories
and timing of rain and wind shifts. 

.OUTLOOK FOR 06Z TUESDAY THROUGH FRIDAY...

Late tonight: VFR at the NYC terminals and west, MVFR/IFR east 
early in the evening, becoming VFR throughout. NW-N winds 
G20-25kt.

Tuesday and Wednesday: VFR.

Thursday: IFR/LIFR cigs possible in the morning mainly E of the
NYC metros. Chance of showers with MVFR cond possible. S winds 
10-15 kt with G20-25 kt, winds shifting W during the evening.

Friday: VFR at the NYC terminals and west, MVFR/IFR east with 
showers ending late in the day, becoming VFR throughout. NW 
wind 15-20 kt with G20-30kt. 

Detailed information, including hourly TAF wind component
forecasts, can be found at: https:/www.weather.gov/zny/n90

&&

.MARINE...
A cold front will push from west to east through the waters today. 
The winds will switch from the S and SW to the NNW, with a NNW flow 
prevailing later today into tonight, and through Tuesday. With 
elevated seas on the ocean small craft seas are expected to continue 
through much of the day Tuesday. The winds will become rather light 
Tuesday afternoon into Tuesday night as high pressure settles 
directly over the waters.

Winds on all waters should remain below SCA levels Wednesday and 
through much of Thursday. Initially ocean seas will be around 
4 ft, and then ocean seas become slightly more elevated at or 
above 5 ft late Wednesday night into Thursday mainly due to 
lingering SE swells. The next chance for SCA winds will be 
Thursday night behind a cold front passage. There is also 
potential for gales on the waters on Friday under a strong NW 
flow and cold advection over the warmer waters. Seas will remain
elevated to end the week.

&&

.HYDROLOGY...
Nuisance poor drainage flooding will remain a localized concern
through this morning, especially further east. Otherwise, dry
conditions return through mid week. No additional hydrologic
concerns exist for later in the week.

&&

.OKX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CT...None.
NY...None.
NJ...None.
MARINE...Small Craft Advisory until 6 AM EDT early this morning for 
     ANZ331-335-338.
     Gale Warning until 6 AM EDT early this morning for ANZ332-340-
     345-350-353-355.
     Small Craft Advisory until 6 PM EDT Tuesday for ANZ350-353-355.

&&

$$

SYNOPSIS...JE/DS
NEAR TERM...JE
SHORT TERM...JE
LONG TERM...DS
AVIATION...DR
MARINE...JE/DS
HYDROLOGY...JE
