188 
FXUS61 KOKX 062201
AFDOKX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service New York NY
501 PM EST Thu Feb 6 2025

.SYNOPSIS...
Low pressure departs northeast as a cold front moves through early 
Friday. High pressure builds back into the area for late Friday into 
Friday night. Low pressure, passing through the region, impacts
the area Saturday night into Sunday afternoon. High pressure 
returns Sunday night into Monday. A series of lows pass south of
Long Island Tuesday through Thursday. 

&&

.NEAR TERM /THROUGH FRIDAY/...
Low pressure exits northeast tonight as high pressure approaches 
from the west tonight and tomorrow. A cold front from the departing 
low is expected to pass early tomorrow. 

Between the high and low, a strong pressure gradient will set 
up tonight and will remain tight until tomorrow evening until 
high pressure becomes more centered over the area. 

Winds will reach their peak Friday morning into midday Friday with 
the frontal passage, but will begin to increase early tonight and 
remain strong until Friday evening. Peak winds will be 15 to 20 
mph with gusts 25 to 35 mph. 

While the precip has ended for today, some fog lingers will low
overcast clouds. As winds pick up tonight, the fog will clear 
and clouds will become more broken. 

Southwest winds will continue to lead to warming temperatures 
through this evening with temperatures not cooling much or 
remaining steady into the night right around freezing to the 
upper-30s. Highs will be in the mid-30s to low-40s tomorrow. 

&&

.SHORT TERM /FRIDAY NIGHT/...
As high pressure centers over the area Friday night, NW winds go 
light and clouds clear leaving Friday evening and early night mostly 
clear, with a few increasing clouds closer to daybreak on Saturday. 

Much cooler temperatures will result, with Friday night lows in the 
mid-teens to mid-20s. 

&&

.LONG TERM /SATURDAY THROUGH THURSDAY/...
Confidence is increasing in active period with several chances for 
wintry weather.

*Key Points*

*Winter storms watches are in effect for the entire region from 
Saturday night through Sunday morning. Warning level snow amounts 
are more likely across the Lower Hudson Valley and southern 
Connecticut, with warning level snow possible across northeastern New 
Jersey, New York City, and Long Island.

*The accumulating snow may transition to a wintry mix along the 
coast Saturday evening into Saturday night.

*A series of lows may pass south of Long Island Tuesday through 
Thursday with chances of snow.

A fast and nearly zonal flow continues across the region Saturday 
through Thursday, bringing several lows across or near the region. 
Guidance continues to be fairly consistent with the systems, 
especially for the low impacting the area Saturday night into Sunday 
afternoon. The main low approaches late day Saturday, and transfers 
to the coast Saturday night. And with cold air in place, and a 
slightly southern track snowfall totals have increased, especially 
across the inland regions. A wintry mix is possible along the coast 
as warm air advection increases Saturday night and above freezing 
air at 850mb nears the coast. Also, with the potential of drier air 
moving in at the mid and upper levels along the coast late Saturday 
night snowfall rates will not be optimal with drier air in the snow 
growth region. And, depending on the track of the mid level low 
colder air may remain near the coast and dry air intrusion will 
become more limited, and higher snowfall is possible. With strong 
upper level forcing inland and in the snow growth region, and less 
dry air will lead to the higher snow totals across the interior. 
With higher confidence in reaching warning level snowfall total 
across the interior, and at least advisory level snow and sleet 
totals along the coast with the potential of reaching warning 
levels, Winter Storm Watches have been posted for the entire region 
Saturday night through Sunday morning.

A brief period of dry weather will be likely behind the storm from 
Sunday night into Monday evening. Then with the fast flow a series 
of lows may impact the region from late Monday night through 
Thursday, with additional snowfall possible, especially with the 
Tuesday system as cold air remains in place. Temperatures 
through the extended period remain below normal.

&&

.AVIATION /21Z THURSDAY THROUGH TUESDAY/...
Low pressure moves northeast of the region this evening. A cold
front moves across early Friday. High pressure follows 
thereafter.

Some leftover patchy drizzle with some fog are expected to close out 
this afternoon. For tonight, just expecting low clouds and fog, 
mainly IFR to LIFR. Most of these conditions are forecast to improve 
overnight from west to east with KSWF improving late this evening. 

Improvement late tonight into Friday will be from MVFR to eventually 
VFR. Slight timing differences with respect to the terminals 
comparing the western terminals to more eastern terminals.

Winds at or less than 5 kts along with variable direction will 
overall become more SW tonight near 10 kt. The winds become more 
westerly Friday at near 15-20 kt with gusts developing near 25-30 kt.

 ...NY Metro (KEWR/KLGA/KJFK/KTEB) TAF Uncertainty... 

Amendments likely to refine the timing of categorical changes and 
for timing of when wind gusts begin and end.

.OUTLOOK FOR 18Z FRIDAY THROUGH TUESDAY... 

Friday: VFR. NW winds near 15-20 kt gusting to near 25-30 kt, 
diminishing at night.

Saturday: VFR morning into afternoon. MVFR to IFR, at times 
lower at night, with snow developing, eventually transitioning 
to a wintry mix.

Sunday: Snow, rain/snow mix ending early. Conditions improving to 
VFR. NW wind gusts near 15-20 kt.

Monday: Mainly VFR.

Tuesday: Potential for MVFR, IFR and lower in with chances of snow, 
becoming likely at night.

Detailed information, including hourly TAF wind component forecasts, 
can be found at: https:/www.weather.gov/zny/n90

&&

.MARINE...
SCA advisory is up tonight for ocean waters and up for all waters by 
tomorrow. SCA drops early tomorrow night. Winds will exceed SCA 
criteria with gusts peaking around 30 kts and waves on the ocean 5-7 
feet.

Marginal SCA conditions are possible on the ocean waters Sunday into 
Sunday evening as low pressure impacts the waters. Then with high 
pressure building into the waters sub SCA conditions are expected 
late Sunday night into Monday night. Low pressure impacts the waters 
Tuesday, however, winds and seas are likely to remain below advisory 
levels Tuesday and Tuesday night.

&&

.HYDROLOGY...
A winter storm impacts the region Saturday night through Sunday
afternoon with total liquid of around 3/4 inches areawide. 
Otherwise, there are no hydrologic concerns through the forecast
period.

&&

.OKX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CT...Winter Storm Watch from Saturday evening through Sunday 
     morning for CTZ005>012.
NY...Winter Storm Watch from Saturday evening through Sunday 
     morning for NYZ067>075-078>081-176>179.
NJ...Winter Storm Watch from Saturday evening through Sunday 
     morning for NJZ002-004-006-103>108.
MARINE...Small Craft Advisory from 6 AM Friday to 1 AM EST Saturday for 
     ANZ331-332-335-338-340-345.
     Small Craft Advisory until 1 AM EST Saturday for ANZ350.
     Small Craft Advisory until 1 AM EST Saturday for ANZ353-355.

&&

$$

SYNOPSIS...BR/MET
NEAR TERM...BR
SHORT TERM...BR
LONG TERM...MET
AVIATION...JM
MARINE...BR/MET
HYDROLOGY...BR/MET
