521 
FXUS61 KOKX 292357
AFDOKX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service New York NY
757 PM EDT Sun Jun 29 2025

.SYNOPSIS...
A cold front slowly drifts south of the area and brief weak high 
pressure builds in behind it. The aforementioned boundary then lifts 
north as a warm front late Monday into Monday night, followed by a 
cold frontal passage Tuesday night. Weak high pressure will be 
in control mid week. A cold front approaches and moves through 
late Thursday into Thursday night, followed by high pressure 
returning Friday into next weekend.

&&

.NEAR TERM /UNTIL 6 AM MONDAY MORNING/...
A cold front south of the area continues to slowly drift south 
tonight as brief weak high pressure builds in from the north. Aloft, 
the flow remains mainly zonal tonight.

Mostly clear skies expected for tonight. Combined with light 
winds expecting decent radiational cooling conditions so went 
with MOS consensus for low temperatures. This may also allow for
some patchy radiation fog in the early morning hours. 
Confidence is low at this time.

&&

.SHORT TERM /6 AM MONDAY MORNING THROUGH TUESDAY NIGHT/...
Heights rise at least the first half of Monday with shortwave upper 
level ridging ahead of a digging trough over the Mid-West. Weak high 
pressure over the area dissipates and a warm front approaches from 
the south. This warm front is expected to push north of the area 
sometime late Monday into Monday night. We will be warm sectored 
Monday until a pre-frontal trough and cold front swing through late 
Tuesday into Tuesday night.

Much of Monday remains dry with partly cloudy skies. Late in 
the day as the warm front approaches, isentropic and mid-level 
shortwave lift could bring some showers to the area. Chances for
this linger into Tuesday morning. Plenty of elevated 
instability is still seen in forecast soundings and kept thunder
chances in during this time.

Depending on what time the warm front pushes north, much of Tuesday 
morning/early afternoon should actually be dry. There is some 
uncertainty also in how much we can break out, but given we'll 
be in the warm sector and some hints from forecast soundings 
there will likely a be brief period Tuesday morning with mostly 
sunny skies. Forecast soundings also show decent mixing on 
Tuesday (with the NAM even mixing up to 850mb). This gave enough
confidence to lower NBM Tds that usually have a higher bias 
anyway. Thinking with the mixing we likely top out with Tds in 
the lower 70s. High temperature forecast remained the same, but 
given lower Tds now have lower heat index values and we likely 
fall short of the 1 day Heat Advisory criteria of 100. However, 
this will need to be monitored as Tds can still trend back up.

Heights start to fall more rapidly aloft as we get into the late 
Tuesday period. This combined with lift from an approaching pre-
frontal trough/cold front will spark showers and thunderstorms 
likely somewhere just west of the area. Thunderstorms should have no 
problem developing given plenty of CAPE. Using MLCAPE given the 
deeper mixed layer shows a model consensus of about 2000 J/kg, which 
can definitely end up being higher. This combined with decent
shear (0-6km bulk shear 30-35 kt) will likely allow some storms
to organize and become severe. At this time damaging wind gusts would
be the primary hazard, but the CAPE profile is deep and wide
enough to support large hail as well.

These showers and thunderstorms will likely produce heavy 
downpours given an environment with 2-2.25 inches of pwat. 
Early look at longer range CAMs do show potential for 1+ per 
hour rainfall rates. However, storm motion is expected to be 
fast and at this time minor urban and poor drainage flooding 
seems more likely than flash flooding, but an instance of flash 
flooding can not be completely ruled out.

&&

.LONG TERM /WEDNESDAY THROUGH SUNDAY/...
* Seasonably warm and humid through Thursday

* Less humid towards the 4th of July

A cold front is forecast to be situated just offshore beginning 
Wednesday morning. There may be some lingering showers across Long 
Island early Wednesday morning, but for the most part, the forecast 
area will be dry. High pressure builds in behind it and will be in 
control Wednesday through Thursday morning with dry conditions. 
Humidity levels drop somewhat for Wednesday and Thursday as dew 
points slowly fall into the low to middle 60s.

A cold front approaches Thursday and at this time NWP is indicating 
some dynamics and frontal forcing with this boundary, enough for the 
chance for thunderstorms for portions of the forecast area, with 
highest chances across the Lower Hudson Valley. May have to bump up 
POPs with next forecast package as ECMWF, GFS, and Canadian 
deterministic models show more in the way of precipitation associated 
with this cold front late Thursday as compared to previous forecast 
runs. If this trend continues, showers and thunderstorms will be 
more likely.  

Lower humidity levels expected later in the week, towards the 4th of 
July holiday and into the first part of the weekend with dew points 
falling into the 50s and lower 60s by Saturday. Would not be 
surprised to see even lower dew points as models typically have a 
hard time handling humidity levels, especially in the long term.

Conditions are expected to remain mainly dry Friday into next 
weekend with high pressure in control. Humidity levels climb 
Saturday night as a warm front lifts north of the area. Slight 
chance for showers and thunderstorms Sunday with the approach of 
another cold front to the west.

&&

.AVIATION /00Z MONDAY THROUGH FRIDAY/...
A frontal boundary stalls south of the region with weak high 
pressure residing across the area through Monday. Monday night, the 
front starts to push back north as a warm front.

VFR conditions expected through much of the TAF period. With the 
warm front Monday night, the 30 hr TAF sites have prob30s for 
showers and MVFR. There is a slight chance of a thunderstorm, too 
low confidence to put in TAF.

While not stated in the TAFs, some non-NYC terminals may have some 
patchy fog early Monday morning with brief IFR to MVFR possible. 
Confidence too low to put in TAFs at this time.

Regarding winds, they are all expected to become light, at or 
less than 5 kts, with variable direction tonight. Generally a 
more southerly flow expected Monday with wind speeds near 5-10 
kts. This southerly flow decreases partially Monday night with
wind speeds expected to be below 10 kts.


     NY Metro (KEWR/KLGA/KJFK/KTEB) TAF Uncertainty...

Amendments possible for wind direction, timing of sea breeze Monday. 
This could be off by 1-3 hours from the TAF.

Amendments possible to refine timing of showers which could occur a 
few hours before indicated in TAF.

.OUTLOOK FOR 00Z TUESDAY THROUGH FRIDAY... 

Monday night: MVFR or lower possible. A chance of showers and a 
slight chance of thunderstorms.

Tuesday: MVFR or lower possible with showers and a chance of 
thunderstorms. Showers and any possible thunderstorms taper off late 
at night. SW wind gusts 15-20 kt day into eve.

Wednesday: VFR.

Thursday: A slight chance of a shower or thunderstorm with 
brief MVFR or lower possible.

Friday: VFR.


Detailed information, including hourly TAF wind component forecasts, 
can be found at: https:/www.weather.gov/zny/n90

&&

.MARINE...
Sub SCA conditions expected up until Tuesday afternoon when a S/SW 
strengthens. This is will likely only impact the ocean waters, with 
5 foot seas and 25 kt gusts, but there is potential for the gust 
forecast elsewhere to trend upward. Gusts likely die down Tuesday 
night, but 5 ft seas linger into Wednesday morning.

The eastern ocean zone may start of Wednesday with 5 ft seas, but 
will be diminishing through the day.  Sub-SCA conditions are 
expected from Wednesday night through Sunday with a leak of any 
strong pressure gradients over the region.

&&

.HYDROLOGY...
No hydrologic impacts are anticipated through Monday. A half inch to 
inch of rain is currently forecast for Tuesday into Tuesday
night on average. Locally higher amounts are possible, and 
there is at least a low chance for flash flooding to occur. 
Minor poor drainage flooding would be more likely.

No hydrologic concerns thereafter.

&&

.TIDES/COASTAL FLOODING...
There is a moderate risk of rip current development across the
ocean beaches Monday and a high risk of rip currents on
Tuesday.

&&

.OKX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CT...None.
NY...None.
NJ...None.
MARINE...None.

&&

$$

SYNOPSIS...JP/JT
NEAR TERM...JT
SHORT TERM...JT
LONG TERM...JP
AVIATION...JM
MARINE...JP/JT
HYDROLOGY...JP/JT
TIDES/COASTAL FLOODING...
