288 
FXUS61 KOKX 131456
AFDOKX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service New York NY
956 AM EST Mon Jan 13 2025

.SYNOPSIS...
Canadian low pressure passes north today into tonight bringing 
a cold front through late this afternoon into this evening. The
are will then remain in between low pressure to the east and 
high pressure to the west Tuesday through Wednesday. High pressure
will largely be control for the end of the week with the exception
of a weakening frontal system moving across the area Thursday. 
Another more potent frontal system impacts the region for the 
weekend.

&&

.NEAR TERM /THROUGH TONIGHT/...
Adjustments were made to the cloud coverage to increase the
cloud coverage and to shift any slight chance POPs to later this
afternoon. This is reflected in the mesoscale model forecasts of
reflectivity across the region. Otherwise, the forecast is on
track with no changes made to today's forecast high
temperatures.

A surface low moves from the western Great Lakes into southern 
Quebec today into tonight. As it passes to our north, it brings a 
cold front through the area late this afternoon/evening. 

The cold front late today is primarily expect to be a dry one. 
However, a few brief light showers or snow showers (depending on
the temperature at the time) could occur along the frontal 
boundary for northern portions of the CWA. No accumulation is 
expected. 

SW winds today will lead to warming temperatures. Afternoon highs 
will be in the mid-40s for coastal areas and in the low-40s for 
northern interior areas. 

Lows tonight will become quite chilly, dipping into the mid/low-20s 
as a NW/W wind gains in speed through the night following the cold 
front, advecting colder air into the area. Peak wind gusts could be 
between 15-25 mph.

&&

.SHORT TERM /TUESDAY THROUGH WEDNESDAY/...
High pressure located to our SW slowly nudges into the area TUesday 
through Wednesday. Simultaneously, low pressure that passed to our 
north moves into the Canadian Maritimes and then offshore to our 
east through this same period. We'll remain sandwiched between the 
two opposing pressure systems under a tight pressure gradient. This 
means NW wind gusts 25-30 mph will remain persistent Tuesday through 
Wednesday.

Cold air advection on Tuesday will be supported by strong NW flow and 
a mid/upper-level trough that amplifies over the northeast on 
Tuesday and remaining nearby offshore on Wednesday. Highs Tuesday 
and Wednesday will remain near freezing (32F) to the mid-20s. Lows 
Tuesday night will be in the mid-teens to mid-20s.

Tuesday through Wednesday is expected to remain dry and mostly 
sunny. However, a period of increased cloud cover is likely Tuesday 
afternoon into Tuesday night with a passing surface trough.

&&

.LONG TERM /WEDNESDAY NIGHT THROUGH SUNDAY/...
The last in a series of shortwave troughs will drop across the 
Northeast Thursday sending a dissipating frontal system across the 
area with little more than some cloud cover and the last piece of 
some cold air before a brief warmup ensues Friday into Saturday. The 
mean longwave trough over the east lifts out at this time with Pac 
Energy briefly breaking down the ridge across western Canada and the 
PAC NW. The latter of which along with an amplifying northern branch 
trough descending south from central Canada is expected to carve out 
a longwave trough encompassing much of the Lower 48 by the close of 
next weekend. Models do diverge somewhat with the timing of a 
stronger frontal system along the eastern side of this trough that 
will move off the eastern seaboard over the weekend. The question 
resides is this a more progressive frontal system with the 
possibility of some weak frontal waves, or does a stronger low pass 
to the west of the area like the 00Z GFS shows next Sunday. However, 
the 00Z GEFS shows no support for this deeper inland low and neither 
do the EPS and GEPS. Thus, see no reason at this time to deviate 
from the National Blend of Models (NBM), which supports a more 
progressive cold front moving through the area Saturday into 
Saturday night. Expect colder air to filter in for the second half 
of the weekend which looks to be the leading edge of an arctic 
airmass that drops south into the Central U.S. the following week. 
Have also maintained chance PoPs for the weekend with mainly rain 
for Saturday and possibly rain and/or snow Sunday with decreasing 
chances.

Temperatures will warm to above normal levels heading into Saturday 
before the aforementioned cold frontal passage brings in some cooler 
air Sunday.

&&

.AVIATION /15Z MONDAY THROUGH FRIDAY/...
A cold frontal passage occurs late this afternoon into early 
this evening.

SW winds likely remain 10kt or less into the early aftn. With 
the passage of a cold front winds remain W and increase, with 
gusts up to 25kt likely. Timing of the cold frontal passage will
likely vary an hour or two from forecast. Gusts may diminish, 
becoming more occasional, or possibly ending, by late this 
evening outside of the NYC metro terminals.

 ...NY Metro (KEWR/KLGA/KJFK/KTEB) TAF Uncertainty... 

Occasional WSW G15-20kt ahead of the cold front are possible in
the afternoon. 

Cold frontal passage this afternoon may vary an hour or two 
from forecast timing (likely on the later side). Winds behind 
the front may vary from 270-290. 

.OUTLOOK FOR 12Z TUESDAY THROUGH FRIDAY...

Tuesday through Wednesday: VFR. NW winds 15G25kt. 

Wednesday night: VFR. NW winds G20kt in the evening. 

Thursday and Friday: VFR.

Detailed information, including hourly TAF wind component forecasts, 
can be found at: https:/www.weather.gov/zny/n90

&&

.MARINE...
SCA conditions start on ocean waters this afternoon after 1pm 
in response to a passing cold front increasing winds and seas.  

The frequency of gusts near 25 to 30 kt will be higher across 
the ocean compared to non-ocean waters for tonight. The non-
ocean waters could get to 25 kt gusts at times tonight but 
forecast has gusts mostly just below 25 kt so no SCA in effect 
non-ocean waters tonight. However, all non-ocean waters develop 
frequent SCA conditions for winds starting midday Tuesday and 
the SCA for non-ocean waters starts 10am Tuesday and goes 
through the entire day.

SCA conditions are likely to continue Wednesday for all forecast
waters. Ocean seas during this time are forecast to be near 5 
to 7 ft.

A ridge of high pressure is forecast to move across the waters 
Wednesday night into Thursday morning with sub-SCA conditions. 
However, a dissipating frontal system moving through the area later 
in the day could produce a short period of marginal SCA conditions 
on the ocean waters. High pressure is then expected to follow on 
Friday with weakening winds and subsiding seas.

&&

.HYDROLOGY...
No hydrologic impacts expected through next weekend.

&&

.OKX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CT...None.
NY...None.
NJ...None.
MARINE...Small Craft Advisory from 10 AM to 6 PM EST Tuesday for ANZ331-
     332-335-338-340-345.
     Small Craft Advisory from 1 PM this afternoon to 6 PM EST 
     Tuesday for ANZ350-353-355.

&&

$$

SYNOPSIS...BR/DW
NEAR TERM...JM/BR
SHORT TERM...BR
LONG TERM...DW
AVIATION...JMC/DW
MARINE...BR/JM/DW
HYDROLOGY...BR/DW
