789 
FXUS61 KOKX 181140
AFDOKX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service New York NY
740 AM EDT Tue Mar 18 2025

.SYNOPSIS...
High pressure builds across today and settles over the region 
through mid week. A frontal system approaches from the west 
Thursday, passing through Thursday night as a coastal low 
develops along the boundary. The system pulls away Friday as the
low deepens, and high pressure briefly returns into Saturday. A
weak area of low pressure moves through Saturday night, with 
another frontal system expected to approach early next week.

&&

.NEAR TERM /THROUGH TONIGHT/...
All the mid level energy that brought rain early this week cuts off 
and drifts off the eastern seaboard. In its wake an elongated ridge 
of high pressure will build into the region today. The ridge will 
amplify in the mid levels which will prevent anything in the way of 
cloud cover for most of the area. For eastern most sections some 
clouds will be around for the first half of the day. Otherwise, 
expect plenty of sunshine with a northerly flow which advects in dry 
air. There should be enough of a northerly synoptic flow to minimize 
the formation of a sea breeze. Perhaps late in the day the sea 
breeze could initiate as the synoptic flow lightens some. Before 
then there could be some occasional gusts through midday. Otherwise 
the north flow gradually lightens through the afternoon. 
Temperatures will average above normal with widespread middle and 
upper 50s closer to the coast, with mainly lower and a few middle 
60s further west and well inland.

Clear skies and light to calm winds will be the theme tonight. This 
should pave the way for chilly conditions with a good radiational 
cooling set up. Lows will range from near to just below freezing in 
the coolest spots and mainly 30s, with some lower and middle 40s in 
the more urban areas.

&&

.SHORT TERM /WEDNESDAY THROUGH WEDNESDAY NIGHT/...
Deep layer ridging will be over the area with sfc high pressure 
directly overhead. With the lack of any synoptic flow regime, look 
for diurnally driven sea breezes to initiate with daytime heating. A 
south to southeast flow will gradually push N and NW through the 
area during the afternoon. Max temperatures will be reached earlier 
in the day along coastal locations. There will be a large spread in 
temperatures by late afternoon with lower and middle 60s further 
inland, to near 50 for coastal communities.

For Wednesday night the winds will be light out of the SE. Some of 
the soundings are indicating a low level inversion and the 
possibility of the formation of low clouds / stratus, especially 
further east and south across the area. Have included low end chance 
of drizzle for southern portions of the area later at night. Minimum 
temperatures will likely range from the middle 30s well inland, to 
the lower 40s closer to the coast and in the NYC metro.

&&

.LONG TERM /THURSDAY THROUGH MONDAY/...
Key Points: 

* Rain returns late Thursday, with a possible change to snow in some 
  areas as a frontal wave develops nearby and deepens into Friday 

* Gusty NW flow behind the system could exceed 40 mph at times Friday

* Next chance for widespread precipitation then looks to arrive 
  Monday into Tuesday of next week 

Ridging exits offshore to start the period ahead of an amplifying 
trough off to the west. Low pressure leading it cuts through the 
Great Lakes on Thursday, dragging a cold front toward the area 
Thursday night. With increasing southerly flow prior to the arrival, 
PWATs climb toward an inch, or around the 90th percentile and the 
max moving average for this time of year per SPC. Anticipate a solid 
stream of rain along and ahead of the front to move in by the 
evening Thursday, persisting overnight into Friday. As the front 
moves through, low pressure develops, aided by a southern stream jet 
and quickly deepens nearby. This leads to an increasing pressure 
gradient late Thursday night into Friday morning and strong NW flow 
on the back side of the system could help advect colder air down 
enough to allow a quick change from rain to snow early Friday 
morning across the interior, and perhaps even down to the coast for 
a brief period. A number of factors working against much in the way 
of accumulation, though a light accum is possible in the elevated 
interior should sufficient rates be realized with soundings hinting 
at a saturated DGZ for a period. The deep trough over the Central-
Eastern US moves over the area Friday, leading the surface low to 
exit northeast towards the Canadian Maritimes later Friday into 
Friday night. Total QPF appears to average around an inch for this 
system.

Gusty NW flow Friday with CAA helping deepen the mixing layer. Gusts 
could exceed 40 mph into the afternoon before gradually subsiding 
into Friday night. 

Conditions briefly calm into the start of the weekend as high 
pressure returns. Thereafter, a weak disturbance looks to pass thru 
late Saturday, perhaps bringing a few rain showers as it does so. 
Global guidance continues to advertise a more potent frontal system 
approaching from the west early next week, though timing and 
placement differences continue to offer a variety of solutions.

&&

.AVIATION /12Z TUESDAY THROUGH SATURDAY/...
High pressure to the west gradually builds in today.

VFR thru the TAF.

NW flow 10 to 15 kt, with gusts 20 to 25 kt thru the morning. Gusts 
may hang on til 16Z or so before subsiding, with speeds then 
lightening to under 10 kt into late day. Flow goes light and vrb 
into the evening with nearby high pressure, and this persists 
overnight into Wednesday before a light E or SE flow develops 
in the day.

 ...NY Metro (KEWR/KLGA/KJFK/KTEB) TAF Uncertainty...

No unscheduled amendments expected.

.OUTLOOK FOR 12Z WEDNESDAY THROUGH SATURDAY...

Wednesday: VFR. Light E/SE flow.

Thursday: IFR/LIFR cigs possible in the morning mainly E of the NYC 
metros, and MVFR to IFR NYC metros and W. Chance of showers late in 
the day, and likely at night, with MVFR to IFR conditions. S 
winds 10-15 kt with G20-25 kt, shifting W and NW into the night.

Friday: MVFR, possibly IFR, with a chance of rain showers along the 
coast, and snow/rain showers inland, ending west to east through the 
day, and becoming VFR. NW wind 15-25 kt with G30-40kt, diminishing 
at night.

Saturday: VFR.

Detailed information, including hourly TAF wind component forecasts, 
can be found at: https:/www.weather.gov/zny/n90

&&

.MARINE...
Small craft conditions will persist on the ocean waters with 
elevated seas as northerly winds gradually come down during the 
course of the day. For much of tonight small craft seas of around 5 
ft may persist across the central and eastern ocean. Sub small craft 
conditions are anticipated on Wednesday as high pressure settles 
over the waters with a SE flow developing late in the day and into 
Wednesday night.

Ocean seas climb toward 5 or 6 ft Thursday afternoon, before 
increasing southerly flow ahead of a frontal system brings SCA 
conditions to all remaining waters late Thursday night or Friday 
morning as wind gusts exceed 25 kt. Gales possible on all waters 
Friday. Ocean seas peak 7 to 9 ft Friday, lowering below 5 ft by 
Saturday afternoon, then sub SCA conditions expected on all waters.

&&

.HYDROLOGY...
No hydrologic impacts are expected throughout the forecast period.

&&

.OKX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CT...None.
NY...None.
NJ...None.
MARINE...Small Craft Advisory until 10 AM EDT this morning for ANZ331-
     332-335-338-340-345.
     Small Craft Advisory until 6 AM EDT Wednesday for ANZ350-353.
     Small Craft Advisory until 6 PM EDT this evening for ANZ355.

&&

$$

SYNOPSIS...JE/DR
NEAR TERM...JE
SHORT TERM...JE
LONG TERM...DR
AVIATION...DR
MARINE...JE/DR
HYDROLOGY...JE/DR
