803 
FXUS61 KOKX 200855
AFDOKX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service New York NY
455 AM EDT Wed Aug 20 2025

.SYNOPSIS...
A frontal system impacts the area today into tonight. Hurricane Erin 
will pass well to the southeast from Thursday into Friday, bringing 
indirect but significant impacts along the shoreline. High pressure 
will return by late week, then a cold front will approach from the 
west from Sunday into Monday. Please refer to NHC forecasts for 
further information on Hurricane Erin.

&&

.NEAR TERM /THROUGH TONIGHT/...
Key Points

* Life-threatening surf and rip currents at all Atlantic Ocean
  beaches

* Isolated flash flood threat at this time today into tonight as
  a frontal system impacts the area

A weakening frontal system approaches the area from the west
today as hurricane Erin moves up the east coast of the US.
Aloft, a shortwave trough approaches. Although the frontal 
system is "weakening" it will still have a part in impacting the
area today as it helps bring in some moisture from the west. 
Showers are expected through much of the day as plenty of lift
is available through the column with the help of the
aforementioned shortwave, a right entrance region of an upper
level jet and surface convergence. There remains uncertainty
on how or if any interaction with Erin will occur, which would
only further enhance rainfall. In coordination with WPC the
marginal risk was kept over the area, but an upgrade is possible
as trends are monitored this morning. One limiting factor will
be the lack high hourly rainfall rates from the latest CAMs.
This is likely due to the lack of deep convection. There is only
very little elevated instability available. Kept slight chance,
but confidence is low.

&&

.SHORT TERM /THURSDAY THROUGH FRIDAY NIGHT/...
Key Points

* Life-threatening surf and rip currents at all Atlantic Ocean
  beaches continue

The short term period will be dominated by the indirect but
significant impacts along the shoreline from Hurricane Eric as 
it passes well to the south east. See TIDES/COASTAL FLOODING 
section below. 

Otherwise, dry, but windy conditions are expected. Winds peak
late Thursday into early Friday out of the NE with gusts up to
20 to 30 mph for most and potentially isolated up to 40 mph
across Long Island and the immediate coast. The 90th percentile
NBM was blended in with the NBM due to the usual low NBM bias.

&&

.LONG TERM /SATURDAY THROUGH TUESDAY/...
Went with the NBM Sat and beyond with little change to the 
overall fcst thinking attm. Ridging at the sfc/aloft will build 
in after Erin's departure. As this ridge moves east another 
frontal system will approach on Sunday and pass through on 
Monday, with chance of showers and possibly a tstm.

&&

.AVIATION /09Z WEDNESDAY THROUGH SUNDAY/...
High pressure continues to move off the New England this morning
as a frontal system approaches from the west through today and
into tonight.

VFR, becoming MVFR across the southern terminals around 10z, 
and around 12Z northern terminals. IFR by late afternoon into 
tonight. Timing of lowering conditions may be off an hour or 
so. There is a chance of showers by mid morning, with widespread
showers beginning during the afternoon and continuing into tonight.
There is a low chance of a rumble of thunder late afternoon 
into the early evening, however, with low confidence, and 
isolated possibility, not included in the forecast.

Winds E to NE less than 10 kt increase toward sunrise, and then
to 10-15 kt by late morning. Gusts are likely during the 
afternoon, although gusts may be more occasional. Winds back to 
NE at 10-15 kt tonight.


 ...NY Metro (KEWR/KLGA/KJFK/KTEB) TAF Uncertainty...

Gusts this afternoon may be more occasional. There may be a 
rumble of thunder late afternoon into the early evening. Low 
confidence in the occurrence, so not included in the forecast.

Timing of lowering flight categories may be off by a couple of 
hours.

.OUTLOOK FOR 06Z THURSDAY THROUGH SUNDAY...

Late tonight: IFR with showers. Toward Thursday morning wind 
ENE gusts 20-25kt along the coast.

Thursday: Chance of showers in the morning with MVFR/IFR cond 
still possible. NE winds 15-20kt G25-35kt, highest along the 
coast. Improving to VFR by evening. 

Friday: VFR. NE-N winds 15G20-25kt in the morning. 

Saturday: VFR. 

Sunday: MVFR or lower possible in any showers.

Detailed information, including hourly TAF wind component forecasts, 
can be found at: https:/www.weather.gov/zny/n90

&&

.MARINE...
The Gale Watch on the ocean waters has been converted to a Gale
Warning and all non-ocean waters are now under a Small Craft
Advisory.

As Hurricane Erin passes well to our southeast, an E/NE flow
will increase to 25 to 35 kt with gusts up to 40 kt for the
ocean waters and 20 to 25 kt with gusts up to 30 kt for non-
ocean waters. Additionally, there will be a combination of a SE
swell from Erin and an E wind wave. Significant wave heights
could over the ocean waters could peak Thursday afternoon at 16
to 18 feet, with occasional seas of 20+ feet. 5-8 foot waves
also reach the eastern LI Sound and 5 foot waves are expected at
the entrance of the NY Harbor.

Please refer to National Hurricane Center forecasts for further
information on Erin.

&&

.HYDROLOGY...
There is a chance for areas of minor urban and poor drainage 
flooding today into tonight due to a slow moving frontal system.
In general, up to an inch of rainfall is expected across the 
area. However, locally higher amounts of 2+ inches can not be 
ruled out if persistent activity develops along the front. There
will be a higher flash flood threat if tropical moisture from 
Erin makes it into the area, with eastern areas the most likely 
spots for this to occur late today into tonight. There is
uncertainty if this connection will occur and trends will be
monitored closely today. The WPC has kept the area in a marginal
risk of excessive rainfall, but this risk could increase with
future updates.

Thereafter, there are no hydrologic concerns through early next
week.

&&

.TIDES/COASTAL FLOODING...
A High Surf Advisory and High Rip Current risk are in effect for
all Atlantic Ocean beaches through Friday as swell from
Hurricane Erin will bring life-threatening surf and rip
currents. Additionally, a Coastal Flood Watch has been issued
for all of southern LI, southern Queens, Brooklyn and Staten
Island for the potential of widespread moderate flooding along 
the vulnerable areas of the immediate coast for the Thursday
evening high tide cycle. Minor coastal flooding may continue
with each high tide cycle through Friday.

Life-threatening surf and rip currents expected for the rest of this 
week as building long period swells from Erin continue, peaking 
Thu/Fri. Surf heights could reach 12-16 ft from Thu afternoon 
and continuing into early Fri morning, as large, very long 
period swells (10-11 ft @ 15-17 sec) arrive nearly head on at 
the beaches. 

The threat for beach flooding, beach erosion and escarpment and 
areas of dune erosion will increase with successive high tides
thru Thu night. Widespread areas of dune erosion are likely 
with localized overwashes during the Thu evening and Fri morning
high tides. This high surf will be combined with elevated water
levels as we approach a new moon.

&&

.OKX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CT...None.
NY...Coastal Flood Watch Thursday evening for NYZ074-075-080-081-
     178-179.
     High Risk for Rip Currents through Friday evening for NYZ075-080-
     081-178-179.
     High Surf Advisory until 8 PM EDT Friday for NYZ075-080-081-
     178-179.
NJ...None.
MARINE...Small Craft Advisory from midnight tonight to 2 PM EDT Friday 
     for ANZ331-332-340-345.
     Small Craft Advisory from midnight tonight to 6 AM EDT Friday 
     for ANZ335-338.
     Small Craft Advisory until 6 AM EDT Thursday for ANZ350-353-
     355.
     Gale Warning from 6 AM Thursday to 2 PM EDT Friday for ANZ350.
     Gale Warning from 6 AM Thursday to 6 AM EDT Friday for ANZ353-
     355.

&&

$$

SYNOPSIS...JMC/JT
NEAR TERM...JT
SHORT TERM...JT
LONG TERM...JMC/JT
AVIATION...MET
MARINE...JMC/JT
HYDROLOGY...JMC/JT
TIDES/COASTAL FLOODING...BR/JT
