709 
FXUS61 KOKX 032336
AFDOKX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service New York NY
Issued by National Weather Service Mount Holly NJ
736 PM EDT Tue Jun 3 2025

.SYNOPSIS...
Offshore high pressure remains in place through early Thursday.
Thereafter, multiple areas of low pressure approach and move
near the area going through the weekend and into early next week.

&&

.NEAR TERM /UNTIL 6 AM WEDNESDAY MORNING/...
Updated sky cover for band of cirrus and upper level smoke 
moving across mainly the western half of the region. Also, 
adjusted dew points several degrees lower to reflect current 
conditions and trends into late tonight.

Dry conditions prevail. Winds expected to diminish with high 
pressure offshore remaining dominant.

Mostly clear sky conditions are anticipated. While conditions
favor more ideal radiational cooling, despite this, low
temperatures trend a few degrees warmer compared to the previous
night, mid 50s to lower 60s.

&&

.SHORT TERM /6 AM WEDNESDAY MORNING THROUGH WEDNESDAY NIGHT/...
Dry conditions continue.

For Wednesday, models pretty good agreement on the 850mb
temperatures increasing several degrees compared to the previous
day. With a tightening of the pressure gradient between high
pressure offshore and low pressure to the west, SW winds
increase and become gusty in the afternoon. This will help warm
up temperature more away from the coast to mid to upper 80s
while coastline remains in the 70s. 

Wednesday night, third night of onshore flow. Possible patchy fog 
and/or low stratus late night into early Thursday morning out east 
across Long Island and Southern CT. Forecast lows well into the
60s.

&&

.LONG TERM /THURSDAY THROUGH TUESDAY/...
The synoptic ridge pattern gradually shifts to more of a trough
structure with rain eventually returning to the forecast late
week, for parts of the weekend as well as early next week. 

A cold front approaches from the west Thursday through early 
Friday. The front then returns back north thereafter and slows 
down heading into the weekend. This will become part of another 
low pressure system approaching from the southwest. This low's 
associated cold front moves near the area for the first half of 
the weekend with additional low pressure development along it.

The low and cold front move east of the area Sunday into Sunday
but another low and associated frontal system move near the area
for early next week.

Thursday, again, slight increase in 850mb temperatures so
warming trend at the surface. However one mitigating factor will
be increasing clouds ahead of low pressure both from the west
and from the south. Still expect highs to get well into 80s
except along coast where highs will be near 80.

Dry conditions continue Thursday. Mainly dry conditions for 
Thursday night.

For Long Island and Southeast CT, possible patchy fog and low 
level stratus again for late Thursday night into Friday morning.

Showers and thunderstorms more probable Friday through Friday night. 
Closer to the coast, thunderstorms mostly slight chance with more 
maritime influence.

Highest chances of showers Saturday through Saturday night. 
Thunderstorms possible as well, but relatively higher chance away 
from the coast.

Chances for showers decrease Sunday into Sunday night but increase 
thereafter for early next week.

Think fog will be more prevalent late Friday night into 
Saturday morning, have patchy fog for entire area.

For rest of temperatures, another quite warm day forecast Friday
with highs well into the 80s but relatively cooler trend 
thereafter for weekend into early next week with daytime highs 
more in the 70s. Flow becomes more northerly Sunday and then
more easterly early next week.

&&

.AVIATION /00Z WEDNESDAY THROUGH SUNDAY/...
High pressure remains offshore through at least Wednesday night.

VFR conditions are expected through the TAF period.

Light south to southwest winds remain into late tonight, and
then increase Wednesday, late morning into the afternoon. Gusts
up to 20kt are expected during the afternoon, however, gusts may
be more occasional.

Smoke aloft from Canadian wildfires remains over the western
terminals into Wednesday. However, low level visibility will 
not be impacted.

 ...NY Metro (KEWR/KLGA/KJFK/KTEB) TAF Uncertainty... 

Gusts Wednesday afternoon may be more occasional.


.OUTLOOK FOR 00Z THURSDAY THROUGH SUNDAY... 

Wednesday night through Thursday: VFR. Possible brief MVFR/IFR 
east of NYC terminals early Thursday morning in fog/stratus. SW 
wind gusts 15-20kt Wednesday and Thursday during afternoon to 
early evening.

Friday: Possible MVFR/IFR with chance of showers/tstms. Possible
brief MVFR/IFR east of NYC terminals early Friday morning in 
fog/stratus. SW wind gusts 15-20kt possible in the afternoon to
early evening.

Saturday: Possible MVFR/IFR with showers likely. Chance of
tstms. Patchy fog early Saturday.

Sunday: Slight chance of a shower. MVFR possible. Otherwise 
mainly VFR.

Detailed information, including hourly TAF wind component forecast, 
can be found at: https:/www.weather.gov/zny/n90

&&

.MARINE...
No changes to winds and seas at this time.

Conditions expected to remain below SCA thresholds on all 
waters through Friday night. Gusts to 20 kt develop each day on 
most waters mid to late week. Some occasional 25 kt gusts will 
be possible.

Winds remain below SCA thresholds thereafter through the
upcoming weekend. However, with the continued SW fetch, seas
will build on the ocean with the forecast showing some 5 ft
ocean seas for this weekend. So, SCA will be possible.

&&

.HYDROLOGY...
No hydrologic concerns through Thursday. Thereafter, with an
increasingly humid and warm airmass in place, layer PW gradually
increase. PW values approach 1.5 inches Thursday night and
eventually reach near 1.75 inches Saturday. This will allow for
any thunderstorms to easily produce heavy downpours. This would
lead to potential minor flooding in low lying, urban, and poor 
drainage areas with excessive runoff. There is a marginal flood 
risk for Saturday through Saturday night.

&&

.TIDES/COASTAL FLOODING...
There is a low risk for the development of rip currents at the
NYC, Nassau, and Southwestern Suffolk ocean beaches Wednesday,
and a moderate risk at the Southeastern Suffolk ocean beaches. A
moderate risk is foecast for Thursday at all the ocean beaches.

&&

.OKX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CT...Air Quality Alert from 11 AM to 11 PM EDT Wednesday for 
     CTZ005>011.
NY...Air Quality Alert from 11 AM to 11 PM EDT Wednesday for 
     NYZ067>075-176-178.
NJ...Air Quality Alert from 11 AM to 11 PM EDT Wednesday for NJZ002-
     004-006-103>108.
MARINE...None.

&&

$$

SYNOPSIS...JM
NEAR TERM...JM/MET
SHORT TERM...JM
LONG TERM...JM
AVIATION...MET
MARINE...JM/MET
HYDROLOGY...JM
TIDES/COASTAL FLOODING...
