948 
FXUS61 KOKX 280309
AFDOKX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service New York NY
1109 PM EDT Sun Apr 27 2025

.SYNOPSIS...
Low pressure along the New England coast lifts slowly to the
northeast, while high pressure builds in from the west into 
Monday. The high then gives way to a frontal system Monday 
night into Tuesday that moves across the area Tuesday night 
into Wednesday morning. High pressure briefly returns late 
Wednesday into Thursday before another frontal system impacts 
the area Thursday night into Saturday. High pressure then builds
in for the end of next weekend.

&&

.NEAR TERM /UNTIL 6 AM MONDAY MORNING/...
Sky conditions have transitioned to mainly clear as
stratocumulus has shifted east of the region. Winds have also 
substantially decreased this evening. This will set up a more 
optimal radiational cooling environment. Therefore lowered min 
temperatures several degrees compared to previous forecast.

An upper level trough/low and associated surface low pressure 
along the New England coast and Canadian Maritimes will 
continue to move to the northeast. This will allow for ridging 
both aloft and at the surface to build east with clearing skies
and diminishing winds. Lows tonight will be in the middle to 
upper 40s for much of the area. The interior portions of the 
area will have low temperatures dropping into the upper 30s to 
lower 40s.

&&

.SHORT TERM /6 AM MONDAY MORNING THROUGH MONDAY NIGHT/...
High pressure shifts overhead Monday and gradually slides south of 
the area into the evening. This will allow for light flow under 
clear skies. Ample sunshine during the day will promote relatively 
deep mixing of the BL. As mid-level heights rise with the upper 
level ridging, this deep mixing will allow temperatures to warm into 
the low to middle 70s throughout the area. Deeper mixing near 
the NYC metro may allow temperatures to rise into the upper 70s.

Given the light flow and deep BL mixing, this will allow for a 
drying of the BL through the day, with dewpoints dropping into the 
middle to low 30s. This will allow for RH values to fall near 20 
percent which is significantly dry, though given the light flow and 
recent rainfall, there aren't any fire weather concerns at this 
time.  

High pressure slides south of the area by Monday night allowing 
for clear skies but a light SW flow. This will increase moisture and 
continue to increase mid-level heights setting up for a warmer day 
for Tuesday. Lows Monday night will be in the upper 40s to low
50s.

&&

.LONG TERM /TUESDAY THROUGH SUNDAY/...
There is definitely better agreement than 24h ago, specifically with 
the timing issues with the end of the week frontal system.
An anomalously strong upper ridge (+1-2SD) over the eastern third of 
the country at the start of the period will work east and offshore 
by Thursday. Interaction between the northern and southern branches 
across the upper Midwest will send a frontal system over top of the 
ridge. The associated warm front lifts across the area late Tuesday, 
followed by a cold frontal passage Wednesday morning. The latter of 
which looks uneventful with weak forcing and little moisture. High 
pressure then briefly follows Wednesday night into the first half of 
Thursday before the front lifts north as a warm front late Thursday, 
followed by a cold frontal passage Friday night. Overall timing is 
faster, but not as quick as the GFS was 24h ago. The 12Z operational 
globals all pointing to the potential for mainly dry conditions 
Saturday barring no changes. However, this is still 5 days out.
The second frontal system remains the stronger of the two with a 
good chance of showers/possible thunder with the warm front Thursday 
night and then ahead of the cold front Friday night. Friday may 
actually dry out in the warm sector and could very well be the 
warmest day of the week. 

As for temperatures, they will be above normal through the mid week. 
Highs will be 75-80 away from the coast, and 60s/70s along the 
coast. Temperatures fall back to seasonable on Thursday, with 60s 
expected region-wide, with warmer readings expected for Friday ahead 
of the next frontal system. NBM box and whisker plots show very 
little spread through Tuesday, but then larger spreads Wednesday 
with the timing of the cooler air behind the cold front. Friday has 
the potential to be the warmest day of the week in the warm sector. 
Median temps (50th percentile) are well into the 80s away from the 
coast. However, went with the cooler NBM deterministic at this
early juncture.

&&

.AVIATION /03Z MONDAY THROUGH FRIDAY/...
High pressure builds in through much of the TAF period and eventually
will move offshore Monday night.

VFR conditions are expected through the TAF period. NW wind gusts 
have been on a downward trend tonight and have mostly 
diminished.

NW winds near 7-10 kt continue through overnight and into Monday
morning. Any gusts will be occasional and just near 20 kt.

Winds will become more W-SW Monday afternoon without much 
change in speed, still near 10 kt.

 ...NY Metro (KEWR/KLGA/KJFK/KTEB) TAF Uncertainty...

Occasional gust to 20 kt before 06Z.

Timing of more SW flow Monday could be 1-3 hours off from TAF.

.OUTLOOK FOR 00Z TUESDAY THROUGH FRIDAY...

Monday night: VFR.

Tuesday: Mainly VFR. Slight chance of MVFR and showers at night. SW wind 
gusts 15-20 kt afternoon and at night.

Wednesday: VFR. W-NW wind gusts 15-20 kt during day.

Thursday: VFR during day. MVFR or lower possible with a chance 
of showers and slight chance of thunderstorms at night. 

Friday: MVFR or lower possible with a chance of showers. Slight chance 
of thunderstorms. SW wind gusts 15-20 kt afternoon into early 
evening.

Detailed information, including hourly TAF wind component forecasts, 
can be found at: https:/www.weather.gov/zny/n90

&&

.MARINE...
SCAs were allowed to expire for all non-ocean waters at 2Z.
Also, the western ocean zone from Sandy Hook NJ to Fire Island
Inlet SCA was cancelled. Only SCAs that remain are east of Fire
Island Inlet with same end time as previous forecast, 7Z Monday.

Winds have decreased substantially this evening. Wind gusts in
are closer to 25 kt within those two eastern ocean zones 
encompassing Fire Island Inlet to Montauk Point, with otherwise
gusts near 20 kt elsewhere.

Wave heights should gradually fall such that SCAs are able to 
be dropped by 6-7Z tonight. Sub-SCA conditions then prevail 
through at least Monday night. 

S flow increases on Tuesday ahead of the next cold front. This 
will increase wind gusts to 25 kt, mainly on the ocean, Tuesday 
evening into Tuesday night. Ocean seas will also build to 
around 4 to 7 ft. Conditions on the ocean fall below advisory 
thresholds by early afternoon Wednesday, with sub-advisory 
conditions for the rest of the forecast period.

&&

.HYDROLOGY...
There are no hydrologic concerns through next week.

&&

.OKX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CT...None.
NY...None.
NJ...None.
MARINE...Small Craft Advisory until 3 AM EDT Monday for ANZ350-353.

&&

$$

SYNOPSIS...DW/MW
NEAR TERM...JM/DW/MW
SHORT TERM...MW
LONG TERM...DW
AVIATION...JM
MARINE...DW/MW/JM
HYDROLOGY...DW/MW
