981 
FXUS61 KOKX 280807
AFDOKX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service New York NY
407 AM EDT Wed May 28 2025

.SYNOPSIS...
High pressure will remains offshore today as low pressure
and its associated frontal system approach from the west. The 
system impacts the area tonight into Thursday. Another low 
pressure likely develops near the Middle Atlantic on Friday. The
low passes through Friday night on its way to New England on 
Saturday, with a trailing cold front moving through on Saturday.
The low will meander over eastern Canada early next week as 
high pressure slowly builds from the west. 

&&

.NEAR TERM /THROUGH TONIGHT/...
High pressure centered offshore will continue to ridge back
over the area into this afternoon. At the same time, ridging 
aloft will gradually slide to the east of the area through the 
evening. A broad area of shortwave energy approaches ahead of a 
larger upper low near the Great Lakes. Surface low pressure and 
its associated frontal system gradually lift towards the area 
from the south and west. Warm advection ahead of the frontal 
system is producing light rain across southeast PA and 
central/southern NJ, but having a difficult time spreading NE 
towards the area due to the lingering ridging. A few sprinkles 
and pockets of light rain are possible from the NYC metro on 
west this morning, mainly after day break.

The surface ridging should gradually weaken this afternoon, which 
will allow rain to slowly develop from southwest to northeast. 
It will still take several more hours to reach eastern Long 
Island and southeastern CT, which may remain dry into the early 
evening. The rain will continue to be light where it does occur 
this afternoon and early evening. Temperatures should remain 
below normal in the middle to upper 60s. Cloud cover may be 
thinnest across interior southern CT where temperatures could 
reach or slightly exceed 70 degrees.

Shortwave energy will move overhead tonight as a broad trough
slides across the area. The surface ridging will continue 
weakening, which will allow more organized forcing to spread 
northward. A weak secondary area of low pressure will also lift 
towards the Long Island coast overnight. The combination of 
these features will bring rain tonight into early Thursday 
morning. The rain should remain mostly light, but there could be
a few pockets of brief moderate rain, especially the western 
half of the area. 

Rainfall amounts Wednesday look to range from one quarter to under
a half inch. 

&&

.SHORT TERM /THURSDAY THROUGH FRIDAY/...
The secondary low pressure moves east of the area through  
Thursday. Steady rain early in the morning should end by midday 
with just a chance of some spotty rain late morning into the 
afternoon. Otherwise, the main upper level trough will remain 
well to our west through Friday. The frontal system impacting 
the area Wednesday night into Thursday may slide south of the 
area by Thursday night. Highs on Thursday range from the lower 
to middle 60s across eastern Long Island and southeast 
Connecticut to the upper 60s and lower 70s elsewhere. Low clouds
may hang on through much of the day across the eastern half of 
the area, which could lead to temperatures ending up a bit 
cooler than currently forecast.

The upper trough is progged to amplify as it slides slowly towards 
the east coast through Friday. Models have come into better 
agreement with another low pressure developing over the Middle 
Atlantic on Friday in response to the amplifying trough along the 
nearby frontal boundary. The main synoptic forcing from this system 
holds off till Friday night, but continued SW flow aloft and subtle 
areas of energy may pass across the area. This supports the 
continuation of slight chance PoPs through Friday afternoon. 
Temperatures Friday look to end up slightly below normal in the 
lower 70s. 

&&

.LONG TERM /FRIDAY NIGHT THROUGH TUESDAY/...
Guidance coming into sharper focus with evolution of a 
longwave upper trough over eastern North America and related 
shortwaves pivoting through it Fri night into Sat. One shortwave
trough moving from the OH valley to the Mid Atlantic will phase
with the longwave trough Fri night, with an intensifying sfc 
low moving over the area Fri night and then heading up into New 
England on Sat. Guidance shows a stripe of moderate to locally 
heavy rain just W of the low track as it moves through, with 
amts over an inch possible inland NW of NYC. Another shortwave 
trough pivoting around the longer wave trough over the east is 
likely to generate showers and possibly a few tstms on Sat. 

Improving wx conditions expected for Sunday into early next week as 
the low moves up into ern Canada and weak high pressure slowly 
builds from the west. 

&&

.AVIATION /08Z WEDNESDAY THROUGH SUNDAY/...
High pressure to the east will gradually give way to weak
low pressure approaching from the Mid Atlantic region and then 
passing just south of Long Island late tonight. 

VFR most of today as OVC high/mid level clouds gradually lower.
There is a chance of some light rain at KEWR as early as 14Z-15Z, 
then expanding northeast into the NYC metro area early this 
afternoon and points north/east during the late day hours.
MVFR cigs arrive at the NYC metros by about 21Z-22Z, with IFR cigs 
there and at KISP/KHPN by 03Z. Farther north/east, expect cigs to 
lower to MVFR this evening, with IFR at KBDR/KSWF after midnight. 

Light S flow should increase to 5-10 kt by this afternoon, then back 
SE from late afternoon into this evening. 

 ...NY Metro (KEWR/KLGA/KJFK/KTEB) TAF Uncertainty...

High confidence on timing of lowering cigs late today into this 
evening. Winds could back SE sooner than fcst especially closer to 
the coast. 

.OUTLOOK FOR 06Z THURSDAY THROUGH SUNDAY...

Late tonight: Rain likely with IFR cond expected, except mainly MVFR 
at KGON. 

Thursday: Chance of showers. IFR cond in the morning improve to MVFR 
in the afternoon, and to VFR late at the NYC metros. 

Thursday night: VFR/IFR cigs possible late. 

Friday: MVFR/IFR cigs likely. 

Friday night and Saturday: Chance of showers and possibly a tstm. 
MVFR cond likely, IFR possible. SW-W winds G15-20kt in the 
afternoon. 

Sunday...VFR.

Detailed information, including hourly TAF wind component forecasts, 
can be found at: https:/www.weather.gov/zny/n90

&&

.MARINE...
Winds and seas will remain below SCA levels through Wednesday
with high pressure in control. Increasing SE flow Wednesday 
night into early Thursday morning may lead to wind gusts 20-25 
kt. Seas will also build to 5-6 ft through Thursday. Winds look 
marginal, but enough confidence in elevated seas for an SCA on 
the ocean late Wednesday night through Thursday. 5 ft seas may 
linger Thursday night and the Advisory may need to be extended. 
Conditions on the waters should then remain below SCA levels on 
Friday.

A period of stronger WSW-W flow gusting to 25 kt may be possible on 
Sat in the wake of low pressure passing through Fri night. Hazardous 
ocean seas over 5 ft are also likely Sat into Sat night, which may 
may take some time to subside E of Fire Island Inlet daytime
Sunday. 

&&

.HYDROLOGY...
No hydrologic impacts expected through Friday afternoon.

A period of moderate to heavy rain is possible Friday night 
mainly inland NW of NYC as developing low pressure passes 
through, with amts over an inch possible. No more than nuisance 
impacts expected.

&&

.TIDES/COASTAL FLOODING...
Astronomical tides will gradually subside through the end of
the week. Water levels will remain below minor flood stage at 
the most vulnerable locations of the south shore back bays and 
western LI Sound with high tide tonight. A building SE swell 
Thursday may lead to localized minor flooding for these 
locations with high tide Thursday night. Additional localized 
minor coastal flooding is possible Friday night due to a 
intensifying low pressure passing over the area.

There is a low rip current risk at ocean beaches through this 
evening with with 1-2 ft seas and winds generally 10 kt or less.
The risk increases to high on Thursday due to a building seas 
to 5-6 ft and SE swells.

&&

.OKX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CT...None.
NY...None.
NJ...None.
MARINE...Small Craft Advisory from 6 AM to 6 PM EDT Thursday for ANZ350.
     Small Craft Advisory from 2 AM to 6 PM EDT Thursday for ANZ353-
     355.

&&

$$

SYNOPSIS...BG/DS
NEAR TERM...DS
SHORT TERM...DS
LONG TERM...BG
AVIATION...BG
MARINE...BG/DS
HYDROLOGY...BG/DS
TIDES/COASTAL FLOODING...
