148 
FXUS61 KOKX 162015
AFDOKX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service New York NY
415 PM EDT Fri May 16 2025

.SYNOPSIS...
A warm front draped over portions of the Mid Atlantic lifts north
through the region tonight into early Saturday. An attendant cold
front follows, with the passage expected Saturday evening. A 
secondary cold front passes Sunday night. Low pressure lingers in 
New England and the Canadian Maritimes Sunday through Monday. High
pressure takes control Monday night into early Tuesday night. 
Another frontal system impacts the area Wednesday into Thursday. 

&&

.NEAR TERM /UNTIL 6 AM SATURDAY MORNING/...
Digging trough and upper low over the Upper Midwest swings east
across the Great Lakes region, sending an associated frontal 
system toward the region. Warm front analyzed to the southwest 
over the Mid Atlantic begins to approach and lift through 
tonight.

Remnant MCS that had been advancing east through Pennsylvania 
has weakened substantially as it reached the local region, with
only a few lingering showers over parts of LI late this
afternoon. Largely dry conditions expected thru the remainder 
of the day, with perhaps a few isolated showers popping up as 
forcing and instability remain weak with the boundary still to 
the south, and parent low well off to the west.

With multiple spokes of vorticity rounding the trough, CAMs 
have been signaling another MCS potentially developing well to
the west along the boundary tonight, before working east with 
the outflow. Should this occur, it's possible the remnants work 
into the region overnight, though this is far from a guarantee,
and any local severe risk from this potential activity is low. 
Otherwise, likely see areas of fog development once again into 
the night with light flow and abundant surface moisture. The fog
may become locally dense depending on the evolution of any 
convective system(s) to the west.

&&

.SHORT TERM /6 AM SATURDAY MORNING THROUGH SATURDAY NIGHT/...
Upper level low and trough over the Great Lakes pivots east on 
Saturday, as a vigorous shortwave tracks across the Mid Atlantic.
A warm front lifts thru by the morning, as the associated 
surface low slides into Quebec. The attendant cold front looks 
to move through locally in the early to mid evening.

A challenging convective forecast with uncertainty on timing and
coverage of any morning activity. The approaching cold front 
adds more in the way of forcing as the day progresses, and 
breaks in the clouds should develop by the afternoon. 12z HREF 
is progging MLCAPE values as high as 1500 J/kg, along with bulk 
shear values 30 to 40 kt. That said, cloud cover could limit 
this instability, and subsidence behind any previous MCS could 
help to cap the low levels as well. It now appears the core of
the shortwave energy passes north and west by mid afternoon, 
and could help limit any organized severe threat locally. With 
this, SPC has lowered their threat locally from a slight to a 
marginal, which seems reasonable based on the above and 
continued uncertainty.

CAMs aren't overly aggressive in depicting convective 
development, but should initiation occur, damaging wind gusts 
would be the primary threat, though large hail and even an 
isolated tornado cannot be ruled out in the environment. 
Coverage looks isolated to scattered, especially across the 
LoHud Valley and southern CT.

Cold frontal passage progged around 00Z Sun, and behind it winds 
veer westerly into the overnight, with drying conditions
overnight as dew pts fall back into the lower 50s by daybreak.

&&

.LONG TERM /SUNDAY THROUGH FRIDAY/...
Key Messages:

 * Mainly quiet & pleasant weather Sunday through Tuesday.

 * A frontal system may will bring rainfall Wednesday, possibly into 
   Thursday and Friday. 

A surface low w/ an associated upper-level low will be located over 
New England Sunday. This low will exit into the Canadian Maritimes 
by Monday. 

This low will bring a second cold front through on Sunday night 
helping clear out partly to mostly cloud skies and advecting in 
drier air. This leaves late Sunday night into Monday mostly 
clear/sunny. A few showers are possible in the northern interior, 
closer to the periphery of the low Sunday afternoon/evening, but 
chances look quite low. 

A quick moving shortwave will pass over or just to the north of the 
area Monday afternoon/evening. This may lead to a few clouds, but 
otherwise, we will remain clear and sunny late Sunday night through 
most of Tuesday.

An increased pressure gradient from the low to our northeast will 
lead to breezy W/NW flow Sunday and Monday. As the low exits farther 
away, the gradient weakens, leaving light winds by Monday night. It 
remains this way with high pressure at the surface through Tuesday.

12Z guidance still varies in timing and track of a frontal system 
for the middle of next week. A low over TN/KY late Tuesday will 
approach the area Tuesday night and pass near or to the south of the 
area Wednesday into Thursday, pushing more north and/or east of the 
area on Friday. This will bring a period of wet weather. There is 
higher confidence in showers on Wednesday, but confidence is lower 
Thursday and especially Friday and models diverge on a solution.

Sunday and Monday will see highs in the upper-60s to mid-70s, right 
around the climatological average. Temperatures will be much cooler 
from a passing frontal system on Wednesday with highs in the low-60s 
under E/NE flow. 

&&

.AVIATION /20Z FRIDAY THROUGH WEDNESDAY/...
Weak low pressure with a surface trough near the area today, 
followed by a warm front moving through Saturday. Cold front 
follows for Saturday evening.

Mainly dry conditions expected through early this evening. 
Potentially 3 additional rounds of rainfall in the TAF period. 
Next one is coming up late this evening into overnight, just mainly 
showers within and around NYC terminals with VCSH in TAFs. Next 
round after that is Saturday morning but too low confidence to 
include in TAFs. After that is Saturday afternoon into early 
Saturday evening which is when showers and thunderstorms will be 
possible with PROB30s in the 30 hour TAF sites.

Outside of some brief VFR early this evening and late in the TAF 
period, mainly IFR to LIFR conditions expected. Some coastal sites 
already have redeveloped IFR stratus this afternoon. LIFR expected 
overnight into Saturday morning with clouds lowering and fog forming.

Category forecast is of low confidence with amendments likely. There 
could be fluctuation between categories during the TAF period.

Southerly flow near 5-10 kts expected through much of the TAF
period. Southerly winds pick up to near 10-15 kt with some gusts
up to 20 kt Saturday afternoon.


 ...NY Metro (KEWR/KLGA/KJFK/KTEB) TAF Uncertainty...

Timing of IFR, MVFR, and LIFR changes could be a few hours off 
from TAF.

VLIFR possible early Saturday, 08-12Z.

.OUTLOOK FOR 18Z SATURDAY THROUGH WEDNESDAY...

Saturday: Mainly VFR but MVFR possible in the afternoon with 
chance of showers and thunderstorms with MVFR or lower conditions 
possible.

Sunday: Mainly VFR. Slight chance of showers inland with MVFR
possible. W winds G20-25kt.

Monday - Tuesday: VFR. Monday NW winds G20-25kt day into evening.

Wednesday: MVFR or lower with showers likely, mainly at night. E
wind gusts 15-20 kt.

Detailed information, including hourly TAF wind component forecasts, 
can be found at: https:/www.weather.gov/zny/n90
&&

.MARINE...
Areas of fog likely return tonight, potentially becoming dense 
and persisting into mid Saturday morning. A Dense Fog Advisory 
may be needed, with the potential for vsbys to fall to less than
1 nm at times overnight into Saturday AM.

Winds and waves remain below Small Craft Advisory (SCA) criteria
through at least Saturday night. 

Sunday afternoon and evening, wind gusts may marginally reach SCA 
criteria for the NY Harbor, western Sound and western Ocean. 
Otherwise, sub SCA conditions are expected on all waters thereafter 
through Wednesday. A passing frontal system will lead to ocean seas 
climbing 5-7 feet Wednesday night through Thursday night. 

&&

.HYDROLOGY...
Locally heavy downpours are possible with any thunderstorms
through Saturday aft/eve. While the overall flash flood threat 
is low, the brief heavy rainfall could lead to minor nuisance 
flooding in urban and poor drainage areas. 

There are no other hydrologic concerns through the end of next 
week.

&&

.OKX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CT...None.
NY...None.
NJ...None.
MARINE...None.

&&

$$

SYNOPSIS...BR/DR
NEAR TERM...DR
SHORT TERM...DR
LONG TERM...BR
AVIATION...JM
MARINE...BR/DR
HYDROLOGY...BR/DR
