883 
FXUS61 KOKX 200155
AFDOKX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service New York NY
955 PM EDT Mon May 19 2025

.SYNOPSIS...
Weakening high pressure over the Great Lakes and Ohio Valley 
states will build slowly east tonight and into the area on 
Tuesday. The high then slowly starts to give way to a broad area 
of low pressure approaching from the southwest Tuesday night into 
Thursday. The low then moves northeast and into the Canadian 
Maritimes Thursday night through Saturday. Weak high pressure then
builds in Saturday night through Monday.

&&

.NEAR TERM /UNTIL 6 AM TUESDAY MORNING/...
N/NW winds will gradually subside overnight with most locations
losing gusts by the early morning hours. Coastal locations may
see occasional gusts to around 20 mph linger until around 
daybreak. Cloud cover has been a bit more extensive than 
forecast across much of eastern CT and the twin forks of LI. 
Much of the guidance doesn't seem to be handling it well and 
used a blend of the 18Z NAM and GFS overnight versus the model 
consensus solutions (NBM, CONSALL/SHORT). This cloud cover may 
linger into Tuesday as it gets trapped beneath a subsidence 
inversion. 

Temperatures are expected to range from the lower 40s to the lower 
50s.

&&

.SHORT TERM /6 AM TUESDAY MORNING THROUGH TUESDAY NIGHT/...
Winds continue to diminish Tuesday with weak high pressure over the 
area. Expect any northerly winds to become light and variable 
by late morning or early afternoon. It should be a mostly sunny 
day, however a weak shortwave that passes northeast of the area 
may bring some increased cloudiness to the eastern portions of 
the CWA. 

The weak high over the area slides east late Tuesday into Tuesday 
night. This will allow a weather system over the middle portion of 
the country to approach the area. Expect an increase in cloud cover 
Tuesday night. It should remain dry Tuesday night, however some 
light rain will be possible towards daybreak across the western edge 
of the area. 

High temperatures on Tuesday will be in the middle and upper 60s, to 
lower 70s. Tuesday night lows fall into the upper 40s and lower to 
middle 50s.

&&

.LONG TERM /WEDNESDAY THROUGH MONDAY/...
Global models in general agreement regarding the h5 pattern through 
the long term. A ridge over us on Wednesday flattens as a closed low 
slowly moves from the northern Great Lakes Region eastward through 
the Northeast through this weekend, then into the Canadian Maritimes 
on Monday. This will bring us an extended period of rain threat with 
the greatest chances occurring Wednesday afternoon through Thursday 
evening.

At the surface, a double-barreled low moves closer to us from the 
south and west on Wednesday. The circulation center emerging off the 
Mid-Atlantic Coast during Wednesday night strengthens and eventually 
passes not too far offshore during Thursday. Rain slowly overspreads 
the forecast area from SW to NE across the area through the day 
Wednesday. Rainfall then looks to be more on the moderate side in 
terms of intensity Weds night into Thurs morning as a low level jet 
enhances lift, coinciding with time that the deepest moisture is 
shifting through as indicated by forecast PWATs. See the hydrology 
section below for potential impacts with this system. Rain chances 
then drop off during Thursday night as the low continues on its NE 
path towards Nova Scotia. A cyclonic flow aloft with occasional 
shortwaves passing through keeps the threat of a shower on Friday, 
which afterwards may be more diurnally-driven for both days this 
weekend as well as on Monday.

NBM looked reasonable for temperatures through the long term. Cooler 
than normal Weds-Friday, then warming to near normal this weekend.

&&

.AVIATION /01Z TUESDAY THROUGH SATURDAY/...
Low pressure over the Canadian Maritimes will track slowly
southeast out into the western Atlantic, while weak high
pressure builds in from the west. 

Mainly VFR thru the TAF period. Brief MVFR possible at KGON
Tuesday morning. MVFR ceilings may begin to work into the 
eastern terminals after 00Z Wednesday and around 06Z or later
at the NYC and Lower Hudson Valley terminals. 

NW-N wind gusts 25-30kt will gradually diminish with many of 
the terminals losing gusts by 06Z. However, coastal locations 
may see gusts up to 20kt linger through daybreak. N winds around
10kt to start on Tuesday will weaken through the day and veer 
around to the NE in the afternoon. However, the flow could 
weaken enough for seabreeze development. Thus, there is lower 
confidence in wind direction at the coastal terminals Tuesday 
afternoon.

 ...NY Metro (KEWR/KLGA/KJFK/KTEB) TAF Uncertainty...

Chance of an afternoon seabreeze Tuesday, but low confidence at
this time.

.OUTLOOK FOR 00Z WEDNESDAY THROUGH SATURDAY...

Tuesday Night: MVFR likely developing from west to east
overnight. 


Wednesday: MVFR or lower with rain developing from west to east
through the day. E wind gusts up to 20kt.

Thursday: MVFR or lower with rain, especially in the mrng. E winds 
backing to the NE thru the day with gusts up to 30kt. Wind
diminishing at night/

Friday: MVFR or lower with a chance of showers. 

Saturday: Chance of MVFR in showers. NW G15-20kt.

Detailed information, including hourly TAF wind component forecasts, 
can be found at: https:/www.weather.gov/zny/n90

&&

.MARINE...
With cold advection in the NW flow, have extended SCA on all
waters through 4 AM. Airmass may stay better mixed for a bit 
longer. Winds are expected to diminish below 25kt by this time 
with sub-SCA conditions through at least Tuesday night.

SCA conditions on most, if not all waters Wednesday through Thursday 
as low pressure passes offshore with an east to northeast flow 
increasing to 15-25kt with around 30kt gusts. Could be some gale 
force gusts on the ocean as well during late Weds night into Thurs 
morning, but not enough confidence at this time for a Gale Watch for 
a late 4th into 5th period event. Seas probably remain elevated with 
a residual swell for a period thereafter, so advisory conditions 
probably continue into Friday on the ocean. Sub-advisory conditions 
then follow for Saturday.

&&

.HYDROLOGY...
Rainfall from Wednesday through Thursday night is anticipated to be 
in the range of mostly an inch to 1.5 inches with locally higher
amounts possible. The rainfall will probably be at its heaviest
during Wednesday night into Thursday morning. Impacts will most
likely be limited to minor urban/poor drainage flooding and 
perhaps small stream flooding as well. The flash flood threat 
remains low when considering current flash-flood guidance values
plus a lack of convection to enhance rainfall in only a modest 
PWAT airmass. NBM could be underestimating rainfall amounts as 
it did with last week's system, so can't completely rule out 
isolated flash flooding. WPC continues with a marginal risk of 
flash flooding during this period.

&&

.TIDES/COASTAL FLOODING...
A strengthening/persistent E-NE flow Wednesday through Thursday 
should bring minor coastal flooding late this week. The two 
high tide cycles of concern are late Wed night/early Thu morning
and late Thu afternoon/early Fri evening. The first of these is
lower astronomically and should bring only localized flooding 
to some spots in/around the tidal waterways of NE NJ and Staten 
Island, and along the south shore bays of Nassau County. The 
second round should be widespread, with departures 2.0 to 2.5 
ft, as winds appear more likely to remain NE through the day Thu
and not back N until Thu night.

&&

.OKX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CT...None.
NY...None.
NJ...None.
MARINE...Small Craft Advisory until 4 AM EDT Tuesday for ANZ331-332-335-
     338-340-345-350-353-355.

&&

$$

SYNOPSIS...BC/JC/DW
NEAR TERM...BC
SHORT TERM...BC
LONG TERM...JC
AVIATION...DW
MARINE...BC/JC/DW
HYDROLOGY...JC
TIDES/COASTAL FLOODING...
