313 
FXUS61 KOKX 160246
AFDOKX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service New York NY
1046 PM EDT Tue Apr 15 2025

.SYNOPSIS...
A series of weak troughs of low pressure pivot through for mid 
week. High pressure builds Wednesday night into Thursday and 
moves offshore early Friday. A warm front moves through Friday 
night followed by a cold front Saturday night. High pressure 
returns for Sunday. Another frontal system may impact the area 
Monday into Tuesday.

&&

.NEAR TERM /THROUGH WEDNESDAY/...
Cyclonic flow continues across the region with deep low pressure
moving into the Canadian Maritime at 02Z. With additional energy
rotating into the upper low a mid deck was moving back into the
region, as showers continue to dissipate with the downsloping
gusty winds, and as the lower portion of the column gets drier 
overall with cold advection. Updated for current conditions.

With a pressure gradient still in place winds will remain 
gusty. There may be a particular hour or two where the gusts 
subside some, but overall expect gusts to stay in place along 
with the prospects of some gusts still up to 35 mph at times. 
With the winds remaining in place temperatures should only get 
back mainly into the upper 30s to lower 40s, but it will feel a 
good 7 to 10 degrees colder with the wind.

For Wednesday a deep layered W flow will continue as low 
pressure will continue to move through the Canadian maritimes 
and the NW Atlantic. This, along with high pressure back over 
the Tennessee Valley the region will remain in a fairly tight 
pressure gradient. This will keep gusty conditions in place with
winds likely gusting to around 30 to 35 mph throughout much of 
the day. A W to WNW flow this time of year can typically lead to
warmer than expected temperatures. However, a strong cP air 
mass will be building across and should keep temperatures below 
average with mainly lower half of the 50s for daytime highs. 
With the cold pool aloft expect a good deal of strato cu 
yielding broken cloud cover much of the time, especially further
west-northwest, with intervals of scattered cloud cover at 
times further east.

&&

.SHORT TERM /WEDNESDAY NIGHT THROUGH THURSDAY/...
The pressure gradient will be slow to completely relax, thus 
expect breezy conditions to remain in place. Although there will
likely be more of a relaxation at times, especially away from 
the coast Wednesday night. The current thinking has the winds 
staying up enough that frost formation should be avoided along 
with any freeze. But if winds subside more than expected perhaps
portions of Orange, Putnam, Northwestern Passaic, and portions 
of Northern Fairfield counties could get to freezing. Otherwise 
lows should primarily be in the upper half of the 30s to around 
40 under partly cloudy to mostly clear skies.

For Thursday it will not be as windy as the previous few days, 
but a breeze out of the WNW should linger through the early 
afternoon. High pressure will continue to gradually build in 
with the winds gradually subsiding for the afternoon into the 
evening. There will be plenty of sunshine due to synoptic scale 
sinking motion and some subsidence provided by a WNW wind. With 
air mass modification expect temperatures to recover into the 
upper half of the 50s and lower 60s.

&&

.LONG TERM /THURSDAY NIGHT THROUGH TUESDAY/...
Key Messages:

 * Quiet, cool, and dry Thursday night under high pressure.

 * A frontal system brings isolated to scattered light showers 
   Friday afternoon into early Saturday night. 

 * A warm front leads to highs in the 70s to near 80 in some spots 
   Saturday. 

 * Average temps and dry weather Sunday under high pressure. 

 * Another frontal system brings another shot at wet weather Monday 
   into Tuesday.

An upper-level ridge builds Thursday night and remains through the 
weekend before a longwave upper-level trough with an associated 
shortwave impact us Monday into Tuesday. 

At the surface, high pressure dominates Thursday night, positioned 
to our south. This brings mainly clear skies, light winds, and cool 
temperatures Thursday night with lows in the low-30s to low-40s.

Friday through Saturday, a frontal system moves through the northern 
Great Lakes into Ontario then into Quebec. This brings a warm front 
through Friday night followed by a cold front Saturday night. 

Along the warm front, isolated to scattered light showers are 
expected Friday afternoon and may linger on-and-off through Saturday 
before the cold front. The warm front along with very high heights 
aloft help contribute to strong warm air advection. Highs Saturday 
are currently projected to be in the low-70s to near 80, except out 
east on Long Island and SE CT where highs may only reach the low/mid-
60s. Lows also look warmer due to the warm front passage Friday 
night in the mid-40s to mid-50s. 

A few more showers are possible as a cold front passes Saturday 
night, before things dry out into Sunday with weak high pressure 
returning at the surface. On Sunday, highs bounce back closer to 
climatological norms in the low-60s to upper-50s.

Timing and placement of another frontal system expected to impact us 
Monday into Tuesday still varies among the available 12Z global 
guidance. For now, sticking with chance POPs during this time frame 
with temperatures close to climatological norms.

&&

.AVIATION /03Z WEDNESDAY THROUGH SUNDAY/...
Deep low pressure moves into the Canadian Maritimes overnight 
as high pressure gradually builds in from the west through 
Wednesday.

VFR through the TAF period. 

Gusty NW/W winds continue through the forecast period. Winds and
gusts may diminish late in the overnight, with the gusts 
possibly briefly ending at the outlying terminals. WNW winds 
then increase Wednesday morning with gusts around 30 kt. By late
day winds may become more NW and begin to diminish.


   ...NY Metro (KEWR/KLGA/KJFK/KTEB) TAF Uncertainty...

Sustained winds and gusts likely weaken somewhat overnight.
Otherwise, no unscheduled amendments expected.


.OUTLOOK FOR 00Z THURSDAY THROUGH SUNDAY...

Wednesday Night: VFR. WNW winds G20-25kt.

Thursday: VFR. NW winds G15-20kt.

Friday: Mainly VFR. Chance of showers late afternoon and night, 
mainly inland. S winds G15-20kt.

Saturday: Mainly VFR. Chance of showers, mainly inland. SW winds G20-
25kt.

Sunday: VFR. NW wind gusts 15-20 kt possible.

Detailed information, including hourly TAF wind component forecasts, 
can be found at: https:/www.weather.gov/zny/n90

&&

.MARINE...
Gale Warnings are in place for all waters through tonight. 
Confidence overall has increased some for gale force gusts during 
portions of this evening and tonight. Small craft conditions out 
east ramp up to low end gales towards late evening. Still a tricky
wind forecast in terms of the total duration of gales not only 
through tonight, but even into Wednesday. For now only have the 
Gale warning going through 10z, but this can be re-evaluated 
later. There looks to be at least 3 to 4 hours where gales are 
expected. Gusts continue into Wednesday but may be more marginal 
in terms of gales, at least more marginal at times. Into Wednesday
night some waters will be hovering around SCA criteria, although 
peak gusts do lower. Sub- SCA conditions become more prevalent 
later Thursday into Thursday night.

Sub-SCA conditions are expected on Friday. Friday night, winds 
and waves climb to SCA levels on ocean waters. Winds gust 
25-30kt Friday night through Saturday on ocean waters. They drop
below 25kt Saturday night. Waves climb 5-7 ft Friday night and 
stay above 5 ft through Saturday night on ocean waters. All 
waters will then be below SCA levels Sunday.

&&

.HYDROLOGY...
At this time there are no hydrologic concerns through early next
week.

&&

.OKX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CT...None.
NY...None.
NJ...None.
MARINE...Gale Warning until 6 AM EDT Wednesday for ANZ331-332-335-338-
     340-345-350-353-355.

&&

$$

SYNOPSIS...JE/BR
NEAR TERM...JE/BR/MET
SHORT TERM...JE
LONG TERM...BR
AVIATION...MET
MARINE...JE/BR/MET
HYDROLOGY...JE/BR
