162 
FXUS61 KOKX 120008 CCA
AFDOKX

Area Forecast Discussion...CORRECTED
National Weather Service New York NY
708 PM EST Tue Feb 11 2025

.SYNOPSIS...
Low pressure passes well south of the area tonight into early 
Wednesday morning. Another low pressure and its associated frontal 
system move across the area Wednesday night into Thursday. 
Strong high pressure then builds in through Friday night. High 
pressure moves out into the Atlantic on Saturday. A low pressure
system develops and approaches thereafter through the rest of 
the weekend. An associated strong low moves across Sunday into 
Sunday night. High pressure returns thereafter, gradually building
in for early next week.

&&

.NEAR TERM /UNTIL 6 AM WEDNESDAY MORNING/...
Forecast on track this evening so far. Just some minor
adjustments to temperatures, dewpoints, cloud coverage, and POPs
for snow to better match observed and short term forecast trends.

Winter Weather Advisory remains in effect for Nassau and 
Suffolk Counties 9pm this evening through 7am Wednesday morning.

Low pressure will push ENE off the southern Middle Atlantic 
this evening into late tonight. The region will continue to lie
on the northern periphery of the precip shield. The latest 
model trends all support a bump up in liquid equivalent with 
around a few hundredths well inland, around a tenth southern 
portions of the Lower Hudson Valley and coastal CT, 0.15-0.20" 
in the NYC metro, and around 0.25" across Long Island. The NAM 
still appears to be the wettest of the guidance across the area,
especially across the southern half with as much as 0.3" in NYC
and near 0.4" across eastern Long Island. The 18z NAM has 
lowered QPF just slightly, but overall remains consistent with 
its last several cycles. Most of the 12z CAMs have come into 
better agreement with the rest of the model consensus. The HRRR 
is one of the drier models, but have noted it be to dry at times
in previous events when the region is on the northern 
periphery.

There are also several key ingredients that support the trend
upward in liquid equivalent and resulting snow accumulation 
including a stronger 700mb frontogenesis signal combining with 
strong upper divergence from a 170-190 kt departing polar jet 
streak to our north. Models do tend to struggle with the 
combination of these features and have seen several past events 
over perform with lift accompanying a strong upper jet. The 
other factor is the majority of the model suite is indicating 
enhancement of the precip shield from Southern NJ up into the 
area at least the southeast portion of the area tonight as the 
coastal low emerges off the coast. Thermal profiles are also 
supporting an all snow event. Soundings indicate deep ice 
saturation within the dendritic growth zone for several hours 
tonight, especially across Long Island and portions of the NYC 
metro. The strongest lift appears to occur between 10pm and 2am 
with a decrease the rest of the night.

The snow will begin to overspread from the south tonight between
7-10pm, becoming steady and continuing through the early 
morning hours. There is a period between about 10pm and 2am 
where snowfall rates could run between 0.25-0.50" per hour. 
There is even a low probability snowfall rates could briefly 
approach 1" per hour across Long Island from around 11pm-1am as 
the strongest forcing and deepest moisture combine. Snowfall 
rates will drop off from west to east from 3am to 5am. Some 
flurries may linger towards day break, but accumulating snow 
should end before sunrise. 

Snow to liquid ratios look higher with this event given we are
on the northern periphery of the low and soundings show more of
an ice saturation signal over one with deeper supercooled water
saturation signal. For these reasons have gone closer to a 
12-13:1 ratio. 

Updated snow totals are around 3 inches with potential of a few 
spots approaching 4 inches across Long Island. Elsewhere across
the NYC metro and much of NE NJ and coastal CT, generally 1-2 
inches are forecast. Locations closer to the south shore in 
Staten Island and southern Brooklyn and southern Queens could 
see up to 3 inches. More locations could see closer to 3 inches 
in the NYC metro and NE NJ if a wetter and further north trend 
continues. Amounts across the interior will be lower and 
generally less than an inch as this area is closer to subsidence
from the high building in from the north. 

A Special Weather Statement for areas outside the advisory where 
amounts over an inch are expected to account for potential of
slick conditions tonight. 

Lows generally in the upper 20s along the coast and lower to 
mid 20s interior.

&&

.SHORT TERM /6 AM WEDNESDAY MORNING THROUGH THURSDAY/...
The offshore low pressure moves further out into the Atlantic 
Wednesday morning. Heights aloft along the eastern seaboard
will rise through the day in response to an amplifying upper 
trough over the Plains. High pressure will briefly build down 
across New England from southeast Canada. Another strong upper 
jet streak will pass over New England so mid and high level 
clouds are likely to persist through the day. The day time hours
are expected to be dry as subsidence from the high pressure to 
the north dominates. High temperatures range from the lower and 
middle 30s inland to the middle and upper 30s near the coast. 

The next low pressure and its associated frontal system fast 
approach Wednesday night. Warm advection precip north of the
warm front will expand across the region Wednesday evening and 
Wednesday night. SW flow aloft will increase helping to drive 
warmer air over the region. The latest model trends have 
indicated an overall warmer solution with a brief window for a 
wintry mix of snow/sleet changing to liquid overnight. There is 
still potential for some freezing rain across the interior late 
at night into early Thursday morning. For the NYC metro and Long
Island, warmer air at the surface and aloft will change any 
brief snow to plain rain late in the evening and night. 
Snow/sleet accumulations look light and generally a coating near
the NYC metro to around an inch well inland. Ice accumulations 
for the interior could be several hundredths. 

The warm front and associated weak secondary low lift north over
the area on Thursday. It is always difficult to forecast the 
exact placement of these features. However, the guidance has 
been trending warmer with a much stronger parent low passing 
well to our northwest Thursday. This should be able to scour out
some of the low level cold air across the interior by Thursday 
morning. The bulk of any remaining precip occurs in the morning 
with drier air beginning to move in late in the day as the 
associated cold front moves through. Latest model consensus 
indicates highs in the 40s. With potential of dew points in the 
40s as well, there may some fog around with lingering melting of
the recent snow pack. This is something that may need to be 
added into the forecast in future updates.

&&

.LONG TERM /THURSDAY NIGHT THROUGH TUESDAY/...
The key feature of the long term will be the evolution of a
strong quite deep mid and upper level cutoff low in Southern 
Canada. The mid and upper level pattern is expected to be more 
amplified as a result. The active upper jet stream remains 
across the region much of the long term period with more periods
of strong meridional SW flow.

The overall forecast trend, POPs went up this weekend compared to 
previously forecast and temperatures on average cooled compared to 
previously forecast. Forecast followed NBM but did blend in 
consensus of raw model data for temperatures this weekend. For the 
precipitation, greater weight was given to utilize a precipitation 
type from thickness method for Saturday night into Sunday using the 
GFS with some manual cooling of layers.

Dry conditions expected with strong high pressure building in 
Thursday night through Friday night. Lows at night are forecast to 
be near normal and highs forecast on Friday are slightly below 
normal.

Precipitation event, this weekend, warm front followed by strong
low and associated occluded front. The strong low moves across 
Sunday into Sunday night along with its occluded front. Warm air
advection makes for plain rain for entire region pretty much 
all of Sunday afternoon.

However, with onset (Saturday) and tapering off of precipitation 
(Sunday night), snow will be probable for all of the region. In 
between, mainly Saturday night into Sunday, warming aloft in
advance of the strong low will present a potential transition 
to a wintry mix, including freezing rain across the interior. 
There is uncertainty and subsequent forecasts may have northward
or southward shifts with this wintry mix and snow line and its 
timing.

Too much uncertainty at this point for any exact rain, snow and/or 
ice amounts.

Behind this front, strong cold air advection is expected with jet 
max south of the region. Coldest temperatures of the forecast period 
are expected for Monday and Tuesday of next week. Forecast highs 
struggle to approach the freezing mark and are well below
normal.

&&

.AVIATION /00Z WEDNESDAY THROUGH SUNDAY/...
Low pressure passes south of the terminals tonight. High
pressure briefly builds to the north Wednesday before yet
another low approaches from the west late Wednesday afternoon
into the evening.

VFR early, with a chance of MVFR as light snow develops. KSWF
may remain dry, with just a chance of MVFR in light snow.
Conditions then quickly lower as snow becomes steady, becoming 
IFR, with a period of LIFR in moderate snow along the coast 
until 08Z. Conditions improve back to MVFR with snow ending
toward morning, with MVFR continuing through Wednesday, with a
chance Wednesday afternoon with a brief period of VFR, however,
confidence is low. A wintry mix is possible toward 23Z
Wednesday.

Snow accumulations 1-2 inches with locally up to 3 inches from
metro NYC across Long Island, 1/2 to 1 inch west and north.

Light S to light and variable wind into late tonight, then 
becoming NE 10-15 kt as the low begins to depart. Highest winds 
will be along the coast.


 ...NY Metro (KEWR/KLGA/KJFK/KTEB) TAF Uncertainty... 

Amendments for the timing of flight category changes in snow 
this evening into the overnight period. Snowfall amounts of 1-2 
inches expected with locally up to 3 inches.

Likely remaining MVFR Wednesday. Another round of wintry
weather, snow and sleet, may begin to 23Z Wednesday.


.OUTLOOK FOR 00Z THURSDAY THROUGH SUNDAY... 

Wednesday Night-Thursday: Snow/wintry mix developing Wednesday 
evening with conditions lowering to IFR/LIFR. At the coast, 
wintry mix for a brief period before becoming plain rain. 
Further north, wintry mix becoming plain rain Thursday morning.
Rain ending from the west during Thursday afternoon. LLWS east
of the NYC terminals Thursday, SW 45-55 kt, ending during the
afternoon. E gusts 15-20 kt Wednesday night.

Friday: VFR. NW wind gusts 15-20 kt during the day.

Saturday: VFR early. MVFR or lower possible with rain/snow mix near 
coast and snow inland late. Becoming all rain at the coast by early 
evening, and a bit later at the inland terminals.

Sunday: MVFR for much of the day in rain; winds SW 5-10kts.

Detailed information, including hourly TAF wind component forecasts, 
can be found at: https:/www.weather.gov/zny/n90

&&

.MARINE...
Conditions will remain below SCA levels on all waters tonight.
E/NE winds on Wednesday with marginal SCA gusts and seas likely
in the morning then higher confidence in winds and seas at SCA 
levels in the afternoon and at night. Winds will also increase 
to SCA levels on the LI Bays and eastern Sound Wednesday night. 
SCA conditions likely linger on the ocean Thursday and could 
also expand to the Sound, Bays, and Harbor. 

SCA conditions are probable on the local waters Thursday night
into Friday. Sub-SCA conditions then probable Friday night 
through Saturday night. SCA conditions potentially return for 
Sunday and Sunday night.

&&

.HYDROLOGY...
There are no hydrologic concerns through early next week.

&&

.TIDES/COASTAL FLOODING...
With full moon on Wednesday and SCA easterly flow Wed Night into
Thu AM ahead of approaching frontal system, there is potential 
for scattered areas of minor coastal flooding with Thu morning 
high tide for vulnerable areas along Jamaica Bay, western Great 
South Bay and western LI Sound, and more isolated along NY/NJ 
harbor. 

Tidal departures needed for minor coastal flooding are
near 2 to 2.5 feet of surge. An average of model surge guidance
shows localized departures up to near 2 feet for parts of the
Long Island shoreline, particularly within the South Shore 
Bays as well as within the Southern Fairfield CT shorelines.
However, with the aforementioned SCA easterly flow leading into
the early Thursday high tide, the surge might end up being on 
the higher side and above surge model averages. Therefore, the 
minor coastal flooding may well be more widespread early
Thursday, especially within the South Shore Bays and along
portions of Western Long Island Sound.

Some beach flooding and escarpment possible during the Thu AM high 
tide with elevated water levels and e to w sweep of 4 to 6 ft 
breaking surf, but dune erosion threat appears limited at this
point.

&&

.OKX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CT...None.
NY...Winter Weather Advisory until 7 AM EST Wednesday for 
     NYZ078>081-177-179.
NJ...None.
MARINE...Small Craft Advisory from 6 PM Wednesday to 6 AM EST Thursday 
     for ANZ332-340-345.
     Small Craft Advisory from 6 AM Wednesday to 7 PM EST Thursday 
     for ANZ350-353-355.

&&

$$

SYNOPSIS...JM/DS
NEAR TERM...JM/DS
SHORT TERM...DS
LONG TERM...JM
AVIATION...MET
MARINE...JM/DS
HYDROLOGY...JM/DS
TIDES/COASTAL FLOODING...
