198 
FXUS61 KOKX 140614
AFDOKX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service New York NY
214 AM EDT Mon Jul 14 2025

.SYNOPSIS...
Offshore high pressure departs further east tonight. A cold front 
approaches the region from the west Monday, attempting to move 
through into Monday night. The frontal boundary likely remains just 
south of the area for a few days before returning north as a warm 
front sometime late in the week. This will be followed but a cold 
frontal passage late week into the weekend.

&&

.NEAR TERM /UNTIL 6 AM THIS MORNING/...
High pressure that has been situated off the coast of Nova Scotia 
exits further out into the Atlantic into tonight, as a cold front 
over the eastern Great Lakes gradually works east.

Stratus develops and rolls in into this evening. Lowered PoPs a
bit across NE NJ and the LoHud Valley late today with any 
activity likely remaining off to the west based on current radar
and latest hi res guidance. Still possible a shower or spotty 
thunderstorm drifts east into this evening, but coverage looks 
isolated at best with limited forcing and most, if not all, 
remain dry through this evening. Prefrontal convergence well 
ahead of an approaching frontal boundary could instigate some 
showers into the western Lower Hudson Valley overnight, but 
activity should weaken as it drifts east. 

With the persistent onshore flow and saturated low levels, in 
addition to widespread stratus tonight, will have to watch for 
possible areas of patchy fog or drizzle late, mainly LI and 
southern CT.

&&

.SHORT TERM /6 AM THIS MORNING THROUGH 6 PM TUESDAY/...
Ridge axis aloft shifts east of the region as a surface cold 
front approaches from the west Monday, moving into the region 
Monday night.

Any morning fog or drizzle comes to an end by mid morning,
and the stratus blanket attempts to break up into the afternoon.
The approach of the frontal system will eventually initiate 
showers and thunderstorms, though forcing looks relatively weak
until later in the day. Looking at the thermo environment, 
abundant moisture with a tropical like air mass in place and 
PWATs progged near 2 inches will combine with modest instability,
though denser cloud cover could hinder this. Deep layer shear 
will be lacking, with a piddly wind profile through much of the 
column. This should keep convection relatively unorganized, but 
can't rule out a few strong or damaging wind gusts with any 
thunderstorm, though the overall severe threat looks limited. 

Perhaps a bit more of a concern is the potential for higher 
rainfall rates in the moisture laden environment, particularly 
for areas west of the Hudson. Hi res guidance, including the 
12Z HREF, is signaling potential for pockets of convection 
producing rates over an inch an hour, mainly over NE NJ and the 
LoHud Valley. WPC has expanded the SLGT risk, in line with CSU 
ML guidance, to now include northeast New Jersey and the Lower
Hudson Valley, with a MRGL for areas to the east. Certainly
could see localized to isolated flash flooding instances,
particularly in the SLGT risk area, but more likely areas of 
minor nuisance flooding as the convection works through. Timing
looks mid to late afternoon at the earliest for western areas, 
including NE NJ, NYC, and the LoHud Valley, before activity 
works east across southern CT and Long Island into the evening 
hours, and could linger into the overnight as the weakening 
boundary slows or hangs up over the region, though rains should
lower at night.

&&

.LONG TERM /TUESDAY NIGHT THROUGH SUNDAY/...
***Key Points***

*Potential remains for several days of high heat and humidity this 
week. The higher confidence is now for Wednesday through Friday, 
with widespread max heat index values forecast to be 95 to around 
100 (Heat Advisory criteria).

*A relatively active pattern is expected with chances for several 
days of afternoon showers and thunderstorms.

A frontal boundary will likely stall just offshore and linger near 
the area through midweek before returning north as a warm front. A 
cold front will then follow at the end of the week into the weekend. 
Aloft, the pattern stays the same through the period. Although we 
are under some high heights, we are somewhat on the eastern end of a 
broad upper level trough centered over central Canada and few 
shortwaves likely pass through.

With strong Bermuda high in place, a S/SW flow will allow plenty of 
moisture to be sent our way. This combined with above normal high 
temperatures brings some potential for a heat wave, with widespread 
heat index values of 95 to around 100 (Heat Advisory criteria) 
currently expected Wednesday through Friday. Temperatures have 
trended down a bit, especially for Tuesday which now looks like it 
may not reach Heat Advisory criteria. However, there still is 
uncertainty especially given the potential for convection and slight 
inconsistencies in a late week frontal system among the guidance. 
The NBM was followed for highs but did manually lower afternoon 
dewpoints a few degrees when better mixing is expected. This still 
gave dewpoints in the lower to mid 70s.

Too early to talk specifics when it comes to severe or flooding 
concerns with the aforementioned convection. These details will be 
ironed over the next few days. There is plenty of moisture around 
with pwats 1.50-2.00+ for much of the period so any convection that 
does develop will likely be able to produce heavy downpours. As for 
severe, while we are pretty unstable, shear looks weak through much 
of the period, with some better values as we get into late week and 
the weekend.

&&

.AVIATION /06Z MONDAY THROUGH FRIDAY/...
Offshore high pressure weakens tonight. A cold front gradually
approaches the area on Monday and Monday night.

MVFR expected tonight with IFR possible towards daybreak.  
Conditions improve to VFR around midday or into Monday afternoon
at all the terminals. There continues to be a lot of 
uncertainty with the timing of flight change categories.
Scattered showers will move through, mainly for the metro 
terminals, while drizzle is possible for eastern terminals.

Showers and thunderstorms are possible Monday afternoon. Higher
confidence for the metro terminals and KSWF and KHPN with less 
confidence for eastern terminals. Best timing is 22Z Monday
through 02Z Tuesday, though thunder may occur anytime after 18Z
Monday. Thunder become less likely after 02Z Tuesday, but an
isolated thunderstorm may still move through the terminals.
Showers with heavy rain is more likely, which will continue to
reduce flight categories to MVFR or lower through the remainder
of the forecast period.

Light SE winds up to 10kt becoming generally light and variable
tonight. A more southerly flow develops Monday with speeds to 
around 10 kt.


 ...NY Metro (KEWR/KLGA/KJFK/KTEB) TAF Uncertainty...

Amendments expected due to changes in flight categories changes
and timing through the forecast period.

Higher confidence in thunderstorms Monday afternoon at KEWR and
KTEB.


.OUTLOOK FOR 06Z TUESDAY THROUGH FRIDAY... 

Monday Night: MVFR or lower in showers or thunderstorms.
 
Tuesday-Friday: Mainly VFR. MVFR or lower in any showers or
thunderstorms in the afternoon and evening.

Detailed information, including hourly TAF wind component forecasts, 
can be found at: https:/www.weather.gov/zny/n90

&&

.MARINE...
Patchy dense fog is possible on the local coastal waters Monday
morning.

With a weak pressure gradient, winds and waves likely remain below 
Small Craft Advisory criteria through the coming weekend. However,
a relatively active pattern is expected next week with chances 
of afternoon showers and thunderstorms for several days. Winds 
and waves will be higher in any storms.

&&

.HYDROLOGY...
Showers and thunderstorms move through Monday afternoon and
evening, and could produce locally heavy downpours with rainfall
rates that briefly exceed an inch per hour. This could lead to
areas of minor, nuisance flooding, with a localized flash flood
risk, especially across urbanized NE NJ.

At this time, there are no significant flood concerns Tuesday 
through next weekend.

&&

.TIDES/COASTAL FLOODING...
For Atlantic Ocean beaches, the rip current risk is low on
Monday and Tuesday with generally a 10kt or less onshore flow
and a weakening S/SE swell.

&&

.OKX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CT...None.
NY...None.
NJ...None.
MARINE...None.

&&

$$

SYNOPSIS...DR/JT
NEAR TERM...DR
SHORT TERM...DR
LONG TERM...JT
AVIATION...JP
MARINE...DR/JT
HYDROLOGY...DR/JT
TIDES/COASTAL FLOODING...
