542 
FXUS61 KOKX 130802
AFDOKX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service New York NY
402 AM EDT Sun Apr 13 2025

.SYNOPSIS...
Low pressure develops southeast of Long Island and moves 
northeast today. A weak ridge of high pressure builds into the 
area on Monday followed by another frontal system poised to 
impact the area Monday night and into Tuesday. A cold front will
move through Tuesday night. High pressure passes to the south 
Wednesday and Thursday. Another frontal system approaches the 
region Friday and affects the area going into Saturday.

&&

.NEAR TERM /UNTIL 6 PM THIS EVENING/...
A large upper level trough remains positioned over the area with a 
surface low pressure system developing southeast of Long Island this 
morning. This low is providing enough lift on the northwest side of 
the center to allow showers to develop and pivot into the coastal 
areas and interior southern Connecticut. 

As the low gradually shifts northeast today, showers should diminish 
as the forcing weakens by late morning. Some residual low level 
moisture may allow drizzle to persist into the early afternoon for 
eastern areas, but as the low pulls away, drier air should filter in 
from the northwest. As the drier air filters in, some breaks in the 
clouds are expected into the afternoon. High temperatures should 
rebound into the middle 50s for the western CWA with the eastern CWA 
climbing into the upper 40s to near 50.

&&

.SHORT TERM /6 PM THIS EVENING THROUGH TUESDAY/...
By tonight, the surface low is positioned well northeast of the area 
with drier NW flow persisting overnight. An upper level ridge then 
builds into the area overnight and into the day Monday. This will be 
accompanied by a surface high pressure that will keep the day dry 
and skies mostly clear on Monday. Highs will be in the 60s for much 
of the area.

By Monday night, another large upper level trough approaches from 
the west. The associated surface low pressure deepening over the 
Great Lakes region will push a cold front into the area overnight. 
This front may bring another round of rain showers, possibly with 
convective elements as there may be some elevated instability from 
the daytime heating combining with cooling temperatures aloft. As 
such, have opted to include a slight chance of thunder in the 
forecast, though it should be fairly isolated compared to the shower 
activity.

Some additional shower activity may be possible going into the day 
on Tuesday as a secondary cold front associated with the bulk of the 
mid-level energy approaches and eventually passes overhead by 
evening. High temperatures on Tuesday will be in the low to middle 
60s.

&&

.LONG TERM /TUESDAY NIGHT THROUGH SATURDAY/...
Tranquil conditions expected for much of the long term with low 
pressure heading into the Canadian Maritimes Tuesday night and a 
cold front pushing offshore. Dry slot looks to cut off precipitation 
for our area for Tuesday night. Meanwhile, an upper level trough 
moves through the Northeast into early Wednesday morning. The upper 
trough slowly moves east while a building ridge over the mid-West 
and Great Lakes region moves toward the area into Thursday. At the 
surface, high pressure slowly builds into the area from Tuesday 
night into Wednesday morning, with center of the high south of the 
area by late Thursday into Thursday night. As the high pushes off 
the Mid-Atlantic Coast Thursday night it allows for a frontal system 
to approach from the west, with a warm front possibly moving through 
Friday night, which would be the next chance for precipitation. 
However, there is a great deal of uncertainty this far out, with the 
GFS being uncharacteristically slow with the onset of any 
precipitation, allowing the upper ridge to build over the area 
through Friday night. 

Cold air advection behind the cold front will drop temperatures to 
slightly below normal for this time of year on Wednesday, but then 
temperatures are expected to warm through Saturday with the approach 
of the building upper level ridge. 

&&

.AVIATION /08Z SUNDAY THROUGH THURSDAY/...
Low pressure slowly tracks to the north through daybreak. Weak high 
pressure slowly builds in from the west late today.

MVFR and IFR continues to dominate the forecast into this morning. 
General improvements to MVFR everywhere is expected by 12Z-15Z 
today. VFR conditions don't return until this afternoon, mainly 
after 18Z. However, this is a very uncertain forecast and VFR 
conditions could return several hours earlier than is forecast. 

Rain continues to push east to west through daybreak today, 
affecting most terminals except KSWF. 

NNE to N winds 10-20 kt with some gusts to around 20 kt, the highest 
winds along the coast, mainly affecting KBDR, KGON, and at times, 
KISP. Gusts look to make a return this morning, around 14Z, and 
diminish between 22Z and 00Z Monday.

 ...NY Metro (KEWR/KLGA/KJFK/KTEB) TAF Uncertainty... 

Timing of flight category changes very uncertain, with the 
possibility of conditions improving several hours earlier than 
forecast. 

Gusts may be occasional this evening.

.OUTLOOK FOR 06Z MONDAY THROUGH THURSDAY...

Sunday night: VFR.

Monday: VFR. MVFR or lower in possible showers at night.

Tuesday: VFR. Slight chance of showers. W wind gusts 20-25 kt.

Wednesday: VFR. NW wind gusts around 25 kt. 

Thursday: VFR.

Detailed information, including hourly TAF wind component forecasts, 
can be found at: https:/www.weather.gov/zny/n90

&&

.MARINE...
SCA remains on the ocean mainly for wave heights above 5 feet
with some gusts to 25 kt. Waves finally drop below SCA
thresholds this afternoon with sub-SCA prevailing for all waters
through at least Tuesday afternoon. 

SCA possible for late Tuesday night into Wednesday behind cold 
frontal passage with gusts to around 25 kt on all waters, but right 
now it looks marginal. Waves on the ocean will start off at around 5 
ft for the ocean waters Tuesday night, building to 5 to 7 ft by 
Wednesday, then diminish Wednesday night. Thereafter, no marine 
concerns through Friday with high pressure building into the
area.

&&

.HYDROLOGY...
No significant hydrologic impacts are expected through the 
period.

&&

.OKX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CT...None.
NY...None.
NJ...None.
MARINE...Small Craft Advisory until 6 PM EDT this evening for ANZ350-
     353-355.

&&

$$

SYNOPSIS...JP/MW
NEAR TERM...MW
SHORT TERM...MW
LONG TERM...JP
AVIATION...JP
MARINE...JP/MW
HYDROLOGY...JP/MW
