796 
FXUS61 KOKX 221126
AFDOKX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service New York NY
726 AM EDT Thu May 22 2025

.SYNOPSIS...
A developing coastal low pushes just east of the area by this 
afternoon, and lifts north into New England tonight into Friday. 
The low will linger across northern New England during the first 
half of the weekend as high pressure builds in for the second 
half of the weekend into early next week. Low pressure then 
heads toward the region by Tuesday-Wednesday of next week.

&&

.NEAR TERM /THROUGH TONIGHT/...
As the coastal low develops this morning look for the steady rain to 
continue until about midday or so for the southern half of the 
region, and into the afternoon some further north. The primary low 
begins to fill in with an occluded front slowly pushing towards the 
area. The 700 mb lobe of low pressure forms over the eastern half of 
the area during the day so this should begin to shut off the Carlson 
conveyor belt of Atlantic moisture as warm advection decreases into 
the afternoon. Late in the day the 700 mb low consolidates and 
starts to get further north. This eventually completely shuts off 
the more organized wet weather, although mainly lighter showers will 
pivot through into tonight with the upper level portion of the 
system lingering. With the sfc reflection getting a bit further east 
and north the winds are expected to go to more of a northerly 
component and be more out of the northeast this afternoon, followed 
by more of a true northerly flow tonight. With the cloud cover and 
more of a NE flow regime look for temperatures to run well below 
average. Temperatures have been continued to be lowered from 
previous forecast cycles and are likely to not get out of the upper 
40s inland to the NW, and the lower half of the 50s elsewhere across 
the region and closer to the coast. As the coastal low develops the 
winds should increase further, especially closer to the coast where 
gusts get to around 30 to 35 mph in some spots. Event rainfall 
totals should end up averaging 1 to 2 inches across the region, with 
the highest totals across the eastern third of the area in closer 
proximity to the strongest mid level warm advection and warm tongue 
from the LLJ. For more details with respect to the rain and any 
hydrologic response please refer to the hydrology section.

Cyclonic flow continues into tonight, however the best forcing gets 
north of the area and into New England with deepening of the coastal 
system, especially in the mid levels. By mid to late evening the 
winds should begin to decrease as the wind direction becomes more 
out of true north, then more NW late. Look for periods of light 
shower activity with any additional rainfall to be on the light side 
with the highest RH in the lowest 10kft as the system becomes 
vertically stacked. Mainly cloudy skies persist with temperatures 
averaging below average with lows mainly in the 40s region wide.

&&

.SHORT TERM /FRIDAY THROUGH SATURDAY/...
The cool weather regime continues as the upper level low more or 
less temporarily stalls over Northern New England and Upstate NY 
Friday into Friday night. Cyclonic flow continues in the column with 
a good deal of cloud cover remaining. Somewhat drier air begins to 
work in down lower in the column on a W flow. This should get 
temperatures a bit warmer, but still running below average with a 
good deal of cloud cover with mainly upper 50s and lower 60s for max 
temperatures. Another spoke of mid and upper level energy pivots 
through into the afternoon and this looks to yield another round of 
at least some scattered shower activity. The activity is likely to 
linger into Friday night as well with the relatively higher chance 
of showers further N and NW. Minimum temperatures Friday night will 
mainly range from the middle 40s inland to the north, to around 50 
or in the lower 50s for the metro and coast.

For Saturday the upper level low slowly pushes northeast into Maine 
and Nova Scotia. A deep WNW flow will reside in the column keeping 
the region primarily dry with only the slightest chance of a shower 
or a few sprinkles mainly across northern most sections as the cold 
pool aloft lingers with mainly broken cloud coverage. With the upper 
level low slowly lifting out and more of a land component to the 
wind temperatures may be able to get a few degrees warmer, but still 
average below normal as max temperatures should get into the lower 
and middle 60s. This would still be around 10 degrees below normal 
for this time of the year.

&&

.LONG TERM /SATURDAY NIGHT THROUGH WEDNESDAY/...
**Key Points**

* Dry conditions for the area Sunday and Monday, with shower chances 
  returning by late Monday and Tuesday.

* Slightly below normal temperates expected generally, with 
  Memorial Day the warmest of the period; near normal.

Decent model agreement on a slow-moving, closed mid-level low east 
of the area over New England to start the period. The local area 
thus resides under a deep cyclonic/NW flow aloft, with a few weak 
shortwaves rounding the base of the closed low through Tuesday. 
Ridging aloft then build over the area on Tuesday, while another 
deep low approaches from the Great Lakes region by midweek.

Have kept the forecast dry for Sunday with the cold pool aloft and 
fairly dry airmass, but can't rule out an afternoon shower 
especially with some shortwave energy passing over the area in the 
afternoon (model guidance consensus still hinting at this 
possibility) along with more favorable mid level lapse rates. This 
looks most likely for the interior, LoHud and Southern CT. At a 
minimum, an increase in cloud cover Sunday afternoon looks likely 
for the whole area, with below normal high temperatures in the mid 
to upper 60s.

By Monday the surface flow becomes more westerly/southwesterly, as 
high pressure/upper ridging builds in.  With some waa, expect a 
warmer day than on Sunday, with mainly dry conditions for the much 
of the day. Clouds will be on the increase, however, by Monday 
afternoon/evening as surface low pressure originating over the 
southeast US heads northeast toward the region. This system will 
have some moisture to work with given its origin, with mean PWATS 
from the LREF (NAEFS/GEFS) of around 1" by early Wednesday. Usual 
model timing differences this far out, so have used the ensemble 
approach for PoPs and Wx, increasing the precip potential by Tuesday 
morning and keeping chances in through Wednesday. Given the 
increased cloud cover and shower activity, temperatures will remain 
slightly below normal in the mid and upper 60s.

&&

.AVIATION /11Z THURSDAY THROUGH MONDAY/...
Low end MVFR to nearly IFR cigs are widespread across the
terminals this morning as rain becomes moderate to locally 
heavy in intensity through midday. Gusts have been more 
occasional than frequent thus far, ENE 15G20-25kts. A return to
high end MVFR may occur later this afternoon, with a lowering 
of cigs again early Friday and toward the end of the TAF period.

  ...NY Metro (KEWR/KLGA/KJFK/KTEB) TAF Uncertainty...

Amendments likely mainly for changes in flight categories. 
Gusts may be more occasional than frequent.

.OUTLOOK FOR 00Z FRIDAY THROUGH SUNDAY...

Thursday night: Improvement to MVFR likely and potentially low end 
VFR. Winds backing NE-N 15G20-25kt. 

Friday: Chance of showers with MVFR cond at times. N winds 10-
15G20kt E of the NYC metros Thu evening. 

Saturday and Sunday: Mainly VFR. NW winds G15-18kt. 

Monday: VFR. 

Detailed information, including hourly TAF wind component forecasts, 
can be found at: https:/www.weather.gov/zny/n90&&

.MARINE...
Small craft for all waters heading into tonight. Winds increase 
overnight with gales on the eastern ocean waters late at night, then 
over the eastern half of LI Sound as well as the eastern bays 
starting Thursday morning. Gale warning now in effect for these 
spots through Thursday afternoon. May need to extend the warning a 
few hours into the evening based on trends of a stronger low passing 
just east of the waters during Thurs evening. All current SCAs may 
needed to be extended by few hours as well. Gusts to 35 kt possible 
even over the ocean waters west of Fire Island inlet, but not 
widespread enough for warning consideration. 

A SCA will likely be needed on the ocean Fri-Sat, mainly for 
seas. All waters look to be blw SCA lvls Sun and Mon. Seas may 
then build on the ocean to SCA lvls late Tue.

&&

.MARINE...
Gale warnings continue today for the ocean waters and the eastern 
nearshore waters, with small craft conditions elsewhere. During 
tonight sub advisory conditions return across the nearshore water 
from west to east as the winds turn more NW and gradually diminish 
into early Friday morning. Ocean seas will remain near small craft 
criteria through tonight, followed by more marginal small craft 
conditions with mainly 4 to 5 ft seas during the day Friday. Small 
craft conditions are then likely for much of the ocean Friday night, 
followed by sub advisory conditions becoming increasingly likely 
late Saturday into Saturday night with a lighter W to NW flow
regime. SCA criteria is not expected to be met Sunday and
Monday.

&&

.HYDROLOGY...
Rainfall event totals are to average generally 1 to 2 inches, 
but with higher amounts of over 2 inches possible across eastern
most portions of the area, especially into eastern portions of 
southern CT. This is where more nuisance urban poor drainage 
related flooding is more likely, but overall flood concerns 
remain low with the rain expected to fall over a long enough 
duration. Thereafter there remain no significant hydrologic 
issues through the remainder of the forecast period.

&&

.TIDES/COASTAL FLOODING...
A prolonged E-NE flow continues into this afternoon, backing 
N/NE toward evening. This backing of winds should help limit 
the magnitude of coastal flooding for most areas, but 
potentially enhance impacts along Peconic and Gardiners Bay and 
north shore of LI. 

The latest forecaster adjusted Stevens (75th percentile 
weighting), ETSS, PETSS STOFS guidance blend signals widespread 
minor coastal flooding for the south shore of Nassau County, the
twin forks of LI (localized moderate impacts possible for north
facing areas along the bayfront), and along much of LI Sound. 

Localized minor coastal flooding likely for NY/NJ harbor where 
winds will back to the N/NNE earlier. Magnitude of coastal 
flooding for central and eastern great South Bay, Moriches, and 
Shinnecock bays will depend on tidal piling trends, but looks to
be localized here.

For Fri evening high tide, coastal flooding looks to be more 
localized for the Fri eve high tide cycle, to southern Nassau 
and SW CT, in response to offshore flow and subsiding onshore 
swells. 

Potential for localized coastal flooding Sun into early next
week with approach of new moon, causing areas to need as little
as 1/4ft of tidal departure for minor coastal flooding. 

As far as shoreline impacts, along the north shore of the south
fork of Long Island, breaking waves of 1 to 3 ft may cause dune
erosion and localized washovers, as well as enhance splashover 
and flooding onto shoreline roads and properties. Along the 
ocean front and Orient Point, breaking waves of 4 to 6 ft on an 
east to west sweep will result in beach erosion and beach 
flooding during the times of high tide. Localized dune erosion 
is possible. Along the north shore of Long Island, breaking 
waves of 3 to 4 ft will cause dune erosion, localized washovers,
as well as enhance splashover and flooding onto shoreline roads
and properties.

&&

.CLIMATE...
Record minimum maximum (coldest high temperatures) are possible
for Thursday, May 22nd. Here are the records and forecast high
temperatures for the date:

NYC: 54/1894, forecast high: 53 
JFK: 55/1967, forecast high: 53
LGA: 57/2003, forecast high: 53
EWR: 56/2003, forecast high: 53 
BDR: 54/2005, forecast high: 51
ISP: 54/2003, forecast high: 54

&&

.OKX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CT...Coastal Flood Advisory from 6 PM to 10 PM EDT this evening for 
     CTZ009>012.
NY...Coastal Flood Advisory from 6 PM to 10 PM EDT this evening for 
     NYZ071-073-078-176-177.
     Coastal Flood Advisory from 2 PM this afternoon to 11 PM EDT 
     this evening for NYZ079>081-179.
     Coastal Flood Advisory from 2 PM this afternoon to 7 PM EDT 
     this evening for NYZ178.
NJ...None.
MARINE...Gale Warning until 6 PM EDT this evening for ANZ331-332-340-
     350-353.
     Small Craft Advisory until midnight EDT tonight for ANZ335-345.
     Small Craft Advisory until 6 PM EDT this evening for ANZ338.
     Small Craft Advisory until 6 AM EDT Friday for ANZ355.

&&

$$

SYNOPSIS...JE/DBR
NEAR TERM...JE
SHORT TERM...JE
LONG TERM...DBR
AVIATION...DBR
MARINE...JE/DBR
HYDROLOGY...JE/DBR
TIDES/COASTAL FLOODING...NV/DBR
CLIMATE...
