066 
FXUS61 KOKX 231126
AFDOKX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service New York NY
626 AM EST Sun Feb 23 2025

.SYNOPSIS...
High pressure remains in control today and moves offshore
tonight into Monday. A weak cold front moves through late 
Tuesday into Tuesday night. Weak high pressure briefly returns 
Wednesday before a quick moving frontal system likely affects 
the region Wednesday might into Thursday. This will be followed 
by a series of cold fronts passing through the region Friday 
into the weekend.

&&

.NEAR TERM /UNTIL 6 PM THIS EVENING/...
An upper trough passing to the north will be moving off the New
England and mid Atlantic coast this morning. This trough has
been producing some mid and high clouds, and increased sky cover
into midday. Otherwise, updated for current conditions.

Surface high pressure builds over the region today behind a 
departing trough well to the north. With nearly zonal upper flow
a weak shortwave approaches late in the day and will bring some
mid and high level moisture, with another round of cloudiness. 
High temperatures will be near normal levels, and used a blend 
of the MOS and NBM guidance.

&&

.SHORT TERM /6 PM THIS EVENING THROUGH TUESDAY/...
An upper level shortwave passes through the northeast tonight
with mid and high level moisture, while at the surface high
pressure gradually moves offshore. Weak warm advection sets up
late tonight with a light flow through the boundary layer. With
the cloud cover limiting radiational cooling and the weak warm
advection overnight lows will be near or just above normal.

Monday a return flow sets up with increasing low level warm
advection into Monday night. Monday's temperatures will be above
normal especially inland. However, with the southerly flow over
cooler ocean waters, highs along the coast may fall short of the
forecast highs. Clouds increase Monday night as yet another more
amplified shortwave moves quickly across the northern tier and
through the northeast Tuesday. With the warmup continuing and
cloud cover temperatures will be 5 to near 10 degrees above
normal. Little frontal forcing and limited moisture, with the
lower levels remaining dry, will keep slight chance
probabilities, and with the warm air any precipitation that does
occur will be all liquid.

&&

.LONG TERM /TUESDAY NIGHT THROUGH SATURDAY/...
Key Points:

* Temperatures will likely run 5 to 10 degrees above normal 
  Wednesday and Thursday. A return to more seasonable temps for 
  Fri/Sat, and possibly below normal to end the weekend. 

* Mainly dry conditions are expected through mid week. A quick 
  moving frontal system will likely affect the region Wed Night into 
  Thursday.

Following a passing cold front from a passing low to our north, 
Tuesday night will trend drier with decreasing clouds. Winds will be 
mainly light from the NW. Given the light NW flow and skies becoming 
clear, some radiational cooling may take place cooling many into the 
upper-30s to around 30. NW flow will continue into Wednesday morning 
before turning west Wednesday afternoon, then eventually back to SW 
Wednesday night. Temperatures will continue to be several degrees 
above seasonable levels Wednesday through Thursday.

Thereafter, general model agreement in further longitudinal 
amplification of troughing across the Eastern US for late week 
period in response to a more vigorous PAC shortwave diving through 
the Central US into the southern Mid Atlantic. ECE and GEFS coming 
into better agreement with this trough amplitude/timing, and 
depicting a progressive and mild frontal system moving through the 
region Thu/Thu night. A shot of Canadian air and return to more 
seasonable temps on Friday, with perhaps a few rain/snow showers as 
trough axis moves through early on Friday.

Better general agreement in polar troughing exerting more influence 
on the NE US for the second half of the weekend into early next 
week, in wake of a clipper system tracking through southern 
Ontario/Quebec and northern New England on Saturday. This clipper 
system could bring another chance for rain/snow. The polar trough 
would signal a return to below normal temps during this time
period.

&&

.AVIATION /12Z SUNDAY THROUGH THURSDAY/...
VFR as high pressure remains centered to our south through this
evening, moving offshore overnight and into early Monday.

W Winds around 10 kt through the afternoon. Winds diminish in 
the evening, becoming light and variable and remain so into 
tonight. Winds S 5-10 kt after daybreak tomorrow. 

 ...NY Metro (KEWR/KLGA/KJFK/KTEB) TAF Uncertainty...

Wind speeds may be a few kt higher at times through 09z at KJFK, 
KLGA, and KEWR.

.OUTLOOK FOR 12Z MONDAY THROUGH THURSDAY...

Monday: VFR.

Tuesday: Mainly VFR. Slight chance of afternoon and evening showers 
and MVFR.

Wednesday: VFR.

Thursday: Rain showers and MVFR possible. Mixed rain/snow showers 
possible at KSWF.

Detailed information, including hourly TAF wind component forecasts, 
can be found at: https:/www.weather.gov/zny/n90

&&

.MARINE...
Made a few minor changes to winds and gusts early this morning,
which were a couple of knots lower than forecast as high
pressure builds into the waters.

The pressure gradient remains weak today through Monday with 
high pressure in control. With the high moving offshore Monday 
into Monday night, and with the approach of a weak cold front, 
southerly winds will increase late Monday into Monday night. 
With warmer air moving over the cold ocean waters during this 
time mixing will be limited with gusts also limited, with gusts 
nearing 25 kt for a brief period Monday night. A weak cold front
crosses the waters late Tuesday into Tuesday night.

Winds and seas remain below advisory levels across the forecast 
waters today through Tuesday.

Sub SCA conds continue Tue Night into Wed as weak high pressure
builds. SCA criteria is not expected to be met through the 
start of the weekend.

&&

.HYDROLOGY...
No hydrologic impacts are expected through the end of the week.

&&

.OKX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CT...None.
NY...None.
NJ...None.
MARINE...None.

&&

$$

SYNOPSIS...BR/MET
NEAR TERM...MET
SHORT TERM...MET
LONG TERM...BR
AVIATION...BR
MARINE...BR/MET
HYDROLOGY...BR/MET
