245 
FXUS61 KOKX 141721
AFDOKX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service New York NY
121 PM EDT Thu Aug 14 2025

.SYNOPSIS...
A cold front moves across the area this evening. High pressure 
from Southeast Canada moves in Friday into Saturday. Another 
cold front approaches Sunday, moving through late in the day 
into Sunday night. The front may stall nearby, and waves of low 
pressure move along the boundary into early next week.

&&

.NEAR TERM /THROUGH TONIGHT/...
An upper level trough moves across well north of the local 
region this afternoon and evening, sending a cold front across
the area. CAMs continue to show limited coverage of convection
this afternoon and evening with weak forcing and mid level dry
air likely the main inhibiting factors. Any shower/storm that
develops could produce locally heavy rain, but will be isolated. 

High temperatures today were from the NBM which have recently 
performed better than MOS in being the slightly higher solution 
compared to MOS. SW flow will continue and some extra sun in between 
showers and thunderstorms will allow for more potential in 
temperatures being higher than forecast. Dewpoints from NBM were 
lowered with more MOS favored for this parameter. Max temperatures 
today are mainly from the mid 80s to around 90 and with dewpoints in 
the upper 60s to near 70 for much of the area, resulting max heat 
indices will just be a few degrees higher than the actual 
temperature (i.e. low 90s). This is below heat advisory
criteria.

For tonight, the cold front will eventually move south of the 
entire region and push south of Long Island overnight into early
morning hours of Friday. Flow becomes more northerly but with a
weakening pressure gradient, the wind speeds remain quite 
light. As a result, some areas could get some fog with overnight
cooling into early Friday morning. This will be more favored 
for those locations that received earlier rainfall.

&&

.SHORT TERM /FRIDAY THROUGH SATURDAY NIGHT/...
For the rest of the short term and going through the first half
of the upcoming weekend, high pressure will be in more control 
of the local weather. High pressure builds south into the area 
from SE Canada and then remains centered near the Canadian 
Maritimes through Saturday. This allow for a more easterly flow 
to develop and eventually modify the local airmass.

Mainly dry conditions persist and temperatures exhibit a 
cooling trend due to greater easterly component of low level 
flow. At night, both Friday night and Saturday night, some 
outlying areas across Lower Hudson Valley, Southern Connecticut 
and interior Northeast New Jersey could develop some fog but 
coverage is mostly expected to be patchy.

&&

.LONG TERM /SUNDAY THROUGH WEDNESDAY/...
The NBM was largely followed with this update with no major changes. 

Key Points:

* Mainly dry conditions with varying shower chances, especially 
  Sunday and Tuesday afternoons.

* Above seasonable high temperatures on Sunday becoming slightly 
  below seasonable through the remainder of the period.

Mid and upper ridging over the Central Plains allows for northwest 
flow aloft to begin the extended forecast period.  A shortwave 
trough passes north of the forecast area on Sunday, with weak 
ridging in place through early next week. The central plains ridging 
retrogrades west by midweek, allowing another trough to move through 
New England by midweek.

At the surface, a cold front approaches the area on Sunday 
afternoon, increasing the chances for showers and thunderstorms into 
Sunday evening. LREF mean soundings via DESI for the region do have 
some MUCAPE (~500-1000J/kg) and PWATS near 2.0", but bulk shear 
remains less than 20kts, with better forcing north of the area. So 
not expecting much in the way of severe thunderstorms. Sunday will 
be the warmest day of the period under southwest flow. The cold 
front passes through on Sunday evening into early Monday, and will 
usher in a drier airmass.  

The front stalls to the south of the local area by Monday. With weak 
areas of low pressure riding along the boundary Tuesday and 
Wednesday, precipitation chances will remain each day, but by no 
means is the period a washout.

&&

.AVIATION /18Z THURSDAY THROUGH TUESDAY/...
A cold front moves across the terminals through this evening.
High pressure then builds in through Friday.  

VFR through the TAF period. An isolated shower or thunderstorm
possible this afternoon and early evening.

Light flow to start this afternoon should become SW-S under 10
kt mid to late afternoon. Winds diminish this evening before
becoming NE behind the cold front passage. NE winds continue
Friday morning, becoming SE in the afternoon 10 kt or less.

 ...NY Metro (KEWR/KLGA/KJFK/KTEB) TAF Uncertainty...

Isolated shower/thunderstorm possible this afternoon and early
evening. 

.OUTLOOK FOR 18Z FRIDAY THROUGH TUESDAY... 

Friday Afternoon-Saturday: VFR. 

Sunday: Mainly VFR. Chance of afternoon and evening showers and
thunderstorms, mainly NYC terminals N and W. 

Monday-Tuesday: VFR.

Detailed information, including hourly TAF wind component forecasts, 
can be found at: https:/www.weather.gov/zny/n90

&&

.MARINE...
A weak pressure gradient remains across the local waters through
the first half of the weekend, with sub-SCA conditions expected
to continue.

Sub SCA conditions are likely Sunday and Monday, though swell 
on the ocean waters may begin to increase Monday from distant 
tropical cyclone Erin. Follow the National Hurricane Center 
(www.hurricanes.gov) for the latest on Erin.

&&

.HYDROLOGY...
There are no significant hydrological concerns through next 
Thursday.

&&

.TIDES/COASTAL FLOODING...
For today, there is a low risk of rip currents at the ocean
beaches. Winds are near 5 mph or less and waves are forecast to
be 2 ft or less.

For Friday, flow becomes more easterly. Winds become more 
easterly and increase to near 5 to 10 mph. A 2 to 3 ft 4 second 
period swell develops but this will be more of an along shore 
current, resulting in waves in the surf zone only forecast to be
near 1 ft or less. Therefore, without a significant increase in
winds compared to the previous day and waves expected to be a 
little less, there is also a low risk of rip currents forecast 
at the ocean beaches on Friday.

&&

.OKX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CT...None.
NY...None.
NJ...None.
MARINE...None.

&&

$$

SYNOPSIS...JM/DBR
NEAR TERM...JM
SHORT TERM...JM
LONG TERM...DBR
AVIATION...DS
MARINE...JM/DBR
HYDROLOGY...JM/DBR
TIDES/COASTAL FLOODING...
