784 
FXUS61 KOKX 181921
AFDOKX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service New York NY
321 PM EDT Sun May 18 2025

.SYNOPSIS...
Low pressure continues to spin over the Northeast through Monday. 
high pressure builds in to the north Monday night and through 
Tuesday. Low pressure passes south of the area Wednesday into Thursday,
then gradually departs northeast offshore and into the Canadian
Maritimes Thursday night through Saturday.

&&

.NEAR TERM /UNTIL 6 AM MONDAY MORNING/...
An occluded surface low pressure system is spinning over northern 
New England with an upper level trough coincident with it. As this 
low spins, additional pieces of mid-level energy will pivot through 
the area, approaching from the northwest. This will be realized at 
the surface as a series of secondary cold fronts, the first of which 
moves through this evening.

Increasingly cloudy skies this afternoon and evening should begin to 
clear out a bit overnight behind a secondary cold frontal passage. A 
few showers can't be completely ruled out this evening, but any 
shower should be isolated and fairly light in intensity. Gusty winds 
may persist overnight, but given the surface inversion that is 
expected to set up, some diminishing in gusts is possible tonight. 
Lows tonight are expected to be in the 50s, warmer at the coast.

&&

.SHORT TERM /6 AM MONDAY MORNING THROUGH TUESDAY/...
By daybreak Monday, the low and trough push a bit more northeast 
with another mid-level shortwave approaching from the northwest. 
Ample dry air in the mid-levels however should limit the cloud cover 
during the day. Despite ample sunshine, the upper trough still 
generally overhead will limit the potential for warming at the 
surface. Highs are expected to rise into the upper 60s to low 70s, 
though some spots may hit the middle 70s. Expect a dry and mostly 
clear day with a persistent NW flow, though gusts should be 
generally diminishing through the afternoon and evening as high 
pressure slowly builds in from the north and west.

Some subtle mid-level ridging will accompany the building surface 
high pressure Monday night and into the day Tuesday. Dry and mostly 
clear conditions are expected during this time frame. Lows Monday 
night will be a bit on the cooler side with outlying spots possibly 
radiationally cooling lower than forecast. Lows Monday night will 
generally be in the middle 40s to low 50s, but outlying spots may 
cool to the low 40s.

High pressure remains overhead on Tuesday with a persistent but 
weakening N/NW flow. This should keep high temperatures in the upper 
60s to low 70s once again.

&&

.LONG TERM /TUESDAY NIGHT THROUGH SUNDAY/...
Key Messages:

 * A frontal system impacts the region Wednesday through Saturday.

 * Most rainfall, with periods of moderate intensity, will occur 
   Wednesday into Thursday.

 * An upper-level trough with a surface trough from the departing 
   low leads to continued clouds and small rain chances Thursday 
   night through Saturday. 

Cloud cover increases Tuesday night as winds turn easterly ahead of 
an approaching low. This low will be located over the OH River 
Valley Tuesday then move in western NY Tuesday night. However, the 
northern jet stream it follows weakens as a stronger southern jet 
stream increases. This leads the northern low weakening as a new low 
develops in the left exit region of the southern jet stream to our 
south off the mid-Atlantic coast Tuesday night. This southern jet 
develops along the southern periphery of an upper/mid-level 
trough that sets up over the north east on Wednesday. 

The mid-Atlantic low, along with the weakening low in western New 
York then brings period of rainfall, moderate intensity at times, 
Wednesday morning into the day on Thursday. This is aided by PWATs 
between 1-1.25", and pieces of mid-level energy passing around the 
mid-level trough located over the region. Easterly flow also 
increases as the low deepens to our south, increasing the pressure 
gradient. Areas near the coast could see easterly gusts of 25 to 35 
mph during this time frame, particularly on Thursday as the low gets 
deeper and closer to the area to our south.

Thursday night, the low moves east of the area. Most precip will 
likely get cut off as this allows winds to turn back N/NW, bringing 
in drier air and slight cold air advection aloft. 

Friday into Saturday, the low moves farther away from the area to 
our northeast. However, a surface trough will linger from the low 
over the area while an upper-level trough continues to remain in the 
area. This may be all we need to to keep up cloud cover and lead to 
small chances for light showers to start the weekend. Confidence in 
this is low, given its possible that dry air and weak cold air 
advection aloft could be enough to hinder any showers developing. 

Saturday night, the upper-level trough finally departs the region to 
the east, leading to dry and mostly clear conditions. 

&&

.AVIATION /19Z SUNDAY THROUGH FRIDAY/...
Low pressure over Northern New England slowly moves towards the 
Canadian Maritimes into Monday.

VFR. Brief shower/sprinkle possible at KSWF into early this evening.

W-NW winds 15-20 kt, with gusts 25-35 kt. The highest gusts should 
occur NYC and coastal terminals. Winds tonight will be NW at 10-15 
kt with gusts 20-25 kt. Some outlying terminals may see gusts 
briefly end. NW winds increase after 12z Monday, becoming 15-20 kt 
with gusts 25-30 kt into the afternoon.

 ...NY Metro (KEWR/KLGA/KJFK/KTEB) TAF Uncertainty...

Gusts may briefly end or become occasional 08-12z.

.OUTLOOK FOR 18Z MONDAY THROUGH FRIDAY...

Monday Afternoon-Night: VFR. NW winds G25-30 kt into the evening. 
Gusts up to 20 kt possible overnight, especially Long Island and 
Southern Connecticut. 

Tuesday: VFR. 

Wednesday: MVFR or lower with showers likely, especially in the 
afternoon into the night. E wind gusts 15-20kt.

Thursday: MVFR or lower possible in showers. NE winds G20-30kt, 
highest across southeastern Connecticut and eastern Long Island.

Friday: MVFR possible. Chance of showers. 

Detailed information, including hourly TAF wind component forecasts, 
can be found at: https:/www.weather.gov/zny/n90

&&

.MARINE...
SCA conditions continue on all waters through Monday afternoon with 
gusts 25-30kt possible on the water. There may be a lull in gusts 
tonight but SCA gusts are expected to ramp back up by daybreak 
Monday so kept it extended all the way through Monday evening. Sub-
SCA conditions then expected on all waters Monday night through 
Tuesday night.

With the approach of a frontal system during Wednesday, an easterly 
flow will be increasing, and by late day SCA conditions are likely 
to develop on the ocean waters. With the increased and persistent 
east flow Wednesday night SCA conditions become likely across all 
the forecast waters Wednesday night and continue into Thursday. A 
brief period of near gale force gusts are possible on the ocean 
waters east of Moriches Inlet Thursday.

As the low tracks northeast of the area Thursday night a northerly 
flow develops and winds diminish west to east, falling below 
advisory levels Thursday night. However, ocean seas are likely to 
remain elevated through Friday, and possible into Friday
evening. 

&&

.HYDROLOGY...
There are no hydrologic concerns through the week.

&&

.OKX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CT...None.
NY...None.
NJ...None.
MARINE...Small Craft Advisory until 6 PM EDT Monday for ANZ331-332-335-
     338-340-345-350-353-355.

&&

$$

SYNOPSIS...BR/MW
NEAR TERM...MW
SHORT TERM...MW
LONG TERM...BR
AVIATION...DS
MARINE...BR/MW
HYDROLOGY...BR/MW
