320 
FXUS61 KOKX 191138
AFDOKX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service New York NY
738 AM EDT Wed Mar 19 2025

.SYNOPSIS...
High pressure will remain in place today before pushing offshore 
tonight into early Thursday. A complex frontal system with 
developing low pressure approaches Thursday and impacts the region 
Thursday night before moving out on Friday. High pressure briefly 
builds in Friday night into Saturday before a weak area of low 
pressure passes through Saturday night. High pressure then returns
Sunday, with another frontal system expected to move through early
next week.

&&

.NEAR TERM /THROUGH TONIGHT/...
Deep layer ridging will be over the area with sfc high pressure 
directly overhead. With the lack of any synoptic flow regime, look 
for diurnally driven sea breezes to attempt to initiate with daytime 
heating. Guidance waits to enhance the ESE flow until late in the 
day and evening. This may be a bit later than what actually occurs. 
The southeast flow should gradually push N and NW through the area 
during the late afternoon and evening. Max temperatures will be 
reached earlier in the day along coastal locations. There will be a 
fairly large spread in temperatures by late afternoon with some 
middle 60s further inland, to near 50 for the immediate coast.

For tonight the winds will be light out of the SE. Most soundings 
now are indicate a low level inversion and the formation of low 
clouds / stratus. This happens towards late evening further east and 
south across the area, and later in the overnight further northwest. 
There remains some uncertainty with the exact timing with respect to 
the low stratus formation. Have included low end chance of drizzle 
for a large portion of the area later at night, mainly at and after 
06z as some lift is indicated in a shallow layer. Have also 
included patchy fog for the time being. Minimum temperatures 
will likely range from the upper half of the 30s well inland, to
the middle 40s towards the NYC metro.

&&

.SHORT TERM /THURSDAY THROUGH FRIDAY NIGHT/...
With any ridging getting off the coast the flow will be primarily 
onshore out of the SE. This should keep low clouds in place for the 
most part. The breeze should pick up later in the day as the 
pressure gradient increases some ahead of an approaching frontal 
system off to the west. Temperatures have trended a bit cooler for 
Thursday with more cloud cover expected ahead of the boundary and 
more certainty with a bit more of an easterly component to the sfc 
wind. Temperatures may not get out of the upper 40s for some eastern 
coastal communities, with upper 50s to near 60 for far western most 
locations. With the trend continuing in sharpening the approaching 
longwave trough, the arrival of rain / showers ahead of the boundary 
has slowed. PoPs begin to increase late in the day and for the early 
evening for western sections (mainly slight chance to low end chance 
PoPs).

Much of the rain / shower activity out ahead of the frontal boundary 
should hold off until about 2-3z Fri for the NYC metro. Much of the 
area should see most of the rain from 3 to 9z, and 6 to 12z further 
east. This frontal system is not going to draw up as much lower 
latitudinal air as the frontal system from a few days ago with 
moisture related standard deviations / anomalies not as great this 
time around. There should be enough mid level dynamics and warm 
advection to generate a good 0.5 to 0.75 inches of water equivalent. 
Much if not all of the precipitation will be in the form of rain. As 
a secondary low forms along the boundary and heights begin to fall, 
colder air does eventually pour in from the west and northwest 
towards Friday morning. Because the system remains progressive and 
will not cut off over the area, any changeover to wet snow will be 
brief across N and NW interior zones. It does not appear that there 
will be any accumulation, with perhaps a light dusting / coating 
across the highest elevations to the N and NW for Friday morning.

Strong dry and cold advection ensues by mid to late morning on 
Friday. As the system deepens as it pulls away the pressure gradient 
increases quickly. NW winds will increase quickly for the late 
morning and afternoon. Gusts to around 40 mph are likely across the 
entire area with strong cold advection and deep layer mixing. Skies 
will clear from west to east during the late morning and into the 
afternoon. Temperatures will max out in the middle 40s to around 
50 on a gusty and strong NW wind.

&&

.LONG TERM /SATURDAY THROUGH TUESDAY/...
Key Points: 

* A few showers possible Saturday evening, otherwise remaining dry 
  thru the weekend

* Frontal system moves through Monday and brings next widespread 
  rainfall to the region

Brief ridging builds in Friday night, helping clear skies and lower 
winds as the gradient relaxes. Tranquil conditions persist thru 
Saturday afternoon, before a weakening shortwave advancing east thru 
the Great Lakes approaches and may instigate a few isolated to 
scattered rain showers into Saturday evening, especially across the 
interior. QPF, where it does precipitate, just a few hundredths at 
most. Conditions dry out Saturday night as ridging begins to build 
in once again. Behind the associated fropa Saturday night winds veer 
NW and usher in a colder air mass to close the weekend. Temperatures 
Saturday in the mid to upper 50s fall about 10 degrees for Sunday, 
which is closer to typical for this time of year.

Attention then turns to the next system which guidance progs moving 
through the region Monday and Monday night. Closed low trough swings 
thru the Lakes, with associated warm front lifting thru Monday, and 
the attendant cold front Monday night. Some solutions do include the 
possibility of wintry precip initially with the overrunning, but this 
is likely limited to the interior if it were to occur with limited 
cold air in place and timing issues. Otherwise, rain develops Monday 
morning and likely persists much of the day before tapering Monday 
evening as the cold front sweeps east and dries the area back out 
for Tuesday.

&&

.AVIATION /12Z WEDNESDAY THROUGH SUNDAY/...
VFR thru the day as high pressure to the west builds in. Conditions 
then likely decline tonight with low stratus and mist developing,
and possibility of fog and/or drizzle, especially after 6Z Thu.
IFR likely, and LIFR possible at times. Slow improvement after
12Z, and MVFR cigs could persist into the afternoon.

A light NE or VRB flow into the morning, becoming SE 5 to 10 kt in 
the afternoon. Speeds increase Thursday mid to late Thursday
morning, with gusts toward 20 kt developing.

 ...NY Metro (KEWR/KLGA/KJFK/KTEB) TAF Uncertainty...

Timing of IFR conds may be off by a few hours.

LIFR possible at times early Thu AM.

.OUTLOOK FOR 06Z THURSDAY THROUGH SUNDAY...

Late tonight: IFR/LIFR cigs possible.

Thursday: IFR/LIFR cigs to start, gradually improve to VFR by 
late morning or midday. SE winds G20kt in the afternoon.

Thursday night: IFR cond likely in rain. Precip could mix with snow 
late at KSWF. NW winds G20-25kt late from the NYC metros north/west.

Friday: MVFR cond possible in the morning at the CT/Long Island 
terminals. NW winds G30-40kt. 

Friday night: VFR. NW winds G20-25 kt in the evening. 

Saturday: VFR. SW winds G20kt in the afternoon at the NYC metros. 

Sunday: VFR. NW winds G20kt.

Detailed information, including hourly TAF wind component
forecasts, can be found at: https:/www.weather.gov/zny/n90

&&

.MARINE...
Sub small craft conditions will be in place today as high pressure 
resides over the waters with a SE flow developing, especially for 
this afternoon into tonight. Ocean seas begin to gradually increase 
during the day Thursday. Small craft seas should prevail by 
afternoon with a SE wind around 15 kts late in the day and evening. 
Low pressure and its associated frontal system pivot through Friday 
morning as the winds quickly switch to the NW. The winds increase 
quickly, within a couple of hours for the mid to late morning on 
Friday. Gale force gusts will prevail through the day, with the 
winds diminishing and gales giving way to small craft conditions for 
a brief time during Friday night.

Winds and seas lower below Small Craft Advisory (SCA) conditions on 
all waters Friday night into Saturday morning, then generally sub 
SCA conditions are expected through Sunday. Possible some ocean 
waters near 5 ft Saturday night, especially east of Moriches Inlet. 
A frontal system moves thru Monday and ocean seas may build to over 
5 ft once again as it does so.

&&

.HYDROLOGY...
At this time no hydrologic impacts are expected throughout the 
forecast period.

&&

.OKX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CT...None.
NY...None.
NJ...None.
MARINE...Gale Watch from Friday morning through Friday afternoon for 
     ANZ331-332-335-338-340-345-350-353-355.
     Small Craft Advisory from noon Thursday to 6 AM EDT Friday for 
     ANZ350-353-355.

&&

$$

SYNOPSIS...JE/DR
NEAR TERM...JE
SHORT TERM...JE
LONG TERM...DR
AVIATION...DR
MARINE...JE/DR
HYDROLOGY...JE/DR
