371 
FXUS61 KOKX 150606
AFDOKX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service New York NY
206 AM EDT Thu May 15 2025

.SYNOPSIS...
Weak low pressure and a frontal boundary will advance toward the 
region through Thursday. Another frontal system will move across
from Friday through Saturday. High pressure will gradually
return early next week as low pressure lingers just east of New
England. A frontal system may approach during the middle of 
next week.

&&

.NEAR TERM /UNTIL 6 AM THIS MORNING/...
Upper level low that as been spinning off to the west over the 
past several days has opened into a trough over the OH Valley 
today, with a surface front and weak low draped across the Mid
Atlantic. Ridging in place has been shifting offshore, with the
local area in between, with prolonged easterly flow and 
unsettled conditions. 

Bands of light to occasionally moderate showers continue to 
work through this evening. The bulk of these showers should
gradually weaken and exit to the north this evening. Areas of 
fog likely develop, with potential to become dense overnight.
Temperatures largely remain steady tonight, falling back a few
degrees into the mid/upper 50s.

&&

.SHORT TERM /6 AM THIS MORNING THROUGH 6 PM FRIDAY/...
Axis of the open trough tracks overhead on Thursday, with the 
decaying surface low and warm front moving through locally. 

Any morning fog should burn off by late morning, and
temperatures climb about 10 degrees above the previous day, with
afternoon highs in the lower 70s. Isolated to scattered pop up 
convection is possible by late morning or early afternoon, with
the chance persisting into the early evening. A bit more mild 
and moist surface conditions are expected, and 12Z HREF CAPE 
values are progged up to 500-1000 J/kg. While the threat for 
severe weather and significant hydrological concerns is low, 
any thunderstorm could produce locally heavy rainfall. 

Rain chances gradually lower by the evening, but a weak 
pressure gradient and very light onshore flow Thursday night 
likely allows fog to develop once again into early Friday 
morning.

&&

.LONG TERM /FRIDAY NIGHT THROUGH WEDNESDAY/...
Key Points:

* An unsettled weather regime continues through Saturday.
 
* Showers and a few thunderstorms are expected Friday and 
  Saturday mainly in the afternoon and evening, but it will not 
  be a complete washout.

* An isolated shower possible inland Sunday afternoon, otherwise
  dry conditions should prevail through Tuesday.

* Temperatures will mainly run above normal through the weekend
  before trending closer to normal early next week. 

A blocky synoptic pattern will continue through the middle of
next week. Models continue to depict a decaying line of 
showers and possible thunderstorms approaching from the west on 
Friday. They are in association with a weak area of mid level 
shortwave energy out of ahead of the next upper low and trough 
over the Northern Plains. The potential for showers and possible
thunderstorms appears highest in the afternoon and evening, and
mainly north and west of the NYC metro. Onshore flow further 
east will likely limit instability and convection potential on 
Friday. 

The aforementioned upper low and trough will move over the Great 
Lakes on Saturday helping to push the next frontal system into 
the area. Conditions may become more conducive to showers and 
thunderstorms and the latest NBM has increased PoPs from its 
previous cycles. However, there are still factors that may limit
convective development including the main forcing remaining 
well to our northwest and potential of some lingering mid level 
dry air. The ECMWF appears the most aggressive with a well 
defined complex of showers/storms moving across the area on 
Saturday. The mesoscale setup will become better resolved over 
the next few days, which should help give more confidence on the
evolution of potential convection on Saturday. Forecast precip 
probabilities are again highest north and west of the NYC metro 
and mainly in the afternoon and evening. 

The frontal system and associated upper low/trough continue
sliding across the area Saturday night. Lingering showers 
cannot be ruled out, but probabilities decrease through the 
night. The system will then push east of the area on Sunday and 
then remain near or just off the New England coast early next 
week. Lingering cyclonic flow aloft Sunday may be enough to 
produce a diurnally driven isolated shower well inland in the 
afternoon. Upper ridging will build just to our west early next 
week with another trough amplifying over the western states. The
proximity of the ridging and upper low just offshore should 
keep conditions dry Monday into Tuesday. The NBM indicates an 
increase in precip probabilities on Wednesday which may be 
overdone given the nearby ridging which may take some time to 
break down. Will indicate a low probability for now with 
potential of another frontal system attempting to approach mid 
next week.

&&

.AVIATION /06Z THURSDAY THROUGH MONDAY/...
Low pressure will remain to the south through the period.

Bands of showers will be exiting to the north this evening. 
The bigger story will be low cigs and vsby especially after 
midnight as E-ESE winds diminish and become light overnight, 
and shift to the NE or become variable. LIFR cond are likely 
and should last until at least 14Z-15Z, and likely until around 
16Z-17Z at KHPN/KGON.

Improvement to MVFR at times from KLGA and points N and W, with
the highest probability of MVFR conditions for KSWF. However there
is a good deal of uncertainty in the forecast for these areas, 
with IFR to MVFR conditions possible Thursday afternoon. Coastal
terminals are likely to remain or improve to IFR Thursday
afternoon. Conditions are expected to deteriorate once again 
Thursday night to IFR or lower for all terminals. 

 ...NY Metro (KEWR/KLGA/KJFK/KTEB) TAF Uncertainty...

Amendments expected for changing flight categories throughout
the TAF period.  

.OUTLOOK FOR 06Z THURSDAY THROUGH MONDAY...

Thursday night: Low clouds/fog with IFR/LIFR cond returning. 

Friday: IFR/LIFR in the morning, then chance of MVFR in the
afternoon/evening with slight chance of tstms.

Saturday: MVFR cond expected, IFR possible, with showers likely
and chance of tstms. 

Sunday...Mainly VFR. 

Monday...VFR.

Detailed information, including hourly TAF wind component
forecasts, can be found at: https:/www.weather.gov/zny/n90

&&

.MARINE...
Small Craft Advisory extended for the NY Harbor until 9pm and remains
in effect for the ocean waters through Thursday evening. Winds 
lighten on the harbor this evening, but ocean seas around 5 ft 
likely linger into Thursday before lowering by Thursday night.

Conditions will remain below SCA levels Friday through next Monday 
with a relatively weak pressure gradient over the waters.

&&

.HYDROLOGY...
Isolated heavy downpours could result in a quick inch of rainfall
and result in minor flooding of urban and poor drainage areas. This
threat appears limited and localized should it occur. QPF 
through Thursday should average under a half inch. Additional 
convection Thursday afternoon or evening could have the same result.
The overall threat for flash flooding remains low.

There are currently no hydrologic concerns Friday through early next 
week.

&&

.OKX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CT...None.
NY...None.
NJ...None.
MARINE...Small Craft Advisory until 6 PM EDT this evening for ANZ350-
     353-355.

&&

$$

SYNOPSIS...DR/DS
NEAR TERM...DR/DS
SHORT TERM...DR
LONG TERM...DS
AVIATION...JP
MARINE...DR/DS
HYDROLOGY...DR/DS
