186 
FXUS61 KOKX 050455
AFDOKX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service New York NY
1155 PM EST Tue Feb 4 2025

.SYNOPSIS...
High pressure will build from the Great Lakes through Wednesday.
A low pressure system then impact the area late Wednesday night
and into Thursday. High pressure then builds into the area 
through the end of the week, followed by low pressure impacts 
for Saturday night into Sunday. A seasonably cold airmass builds
in for the beginning of next week.

&&

.NEAR TERM /UNTIL 6 AM WEDNESDAY MORNING/...
Forecast on track. The pressure gradient relaxes through early
Wednesday morning as high pressure builds closer to the region.
Winds gradually subside, with any remaining gusts ending. A 
fast zonal flow aloft will begin to push mid/upper level 
moisture toward the area overnight helping to increase cloud 
cover during the late night hours, especially further west and 
northwest. Cold advection from the building high should be 
enough to allow temperatures to drop into the teens inland and 
lower/mid 20s at the coast despite the boundary layer not 
completely decoupling and increasing high/mid level clouds.

&&

.SHORT TERM /6 AM WEDNESDAY MORNING THROUGH THURSDAY/...
High pressure continues to build in during Wednesday before
shifting offshore in the evening. Mostly cloudy due the mid and
upper moisture in place, but with dry lower levels and 
subsidence the day should remain dry. Highs below normal as they
top out in the lower and middle 30s.

A broad area of low pressure then approaches the region Wednesday 
night. The system is expected to have two areas of circulation with 
the secondary low center passing through or nearby during Thursday 
afternoon. Generally speaking, precipitation chances begin after 
midnight with precip becoming likely SW to NE across the forecast 
area towards daybreak Thursday through Thursday morning. Chances 
then drop off Thursday afternoon.

Regarding precip types, thermal profiles look cold enough everywhere 
for the precip to begin as snow. Warming aloft in association with 
the approaching low center then introduces a wintry mix that will 
spread generally SW to NE during Thursday morning. Looks like a 
brief period of snow/sleet/rain mix for LI, NYC and the urban 
corridor of NE NJ during the morning commute before a change to 
plain rain. Father north, the wintry mix, which includes freezing 
rain, will last longer. 

As for snow and ice accumulations, still some uncertainty as models 
differ on the timing of the warm nose shifting in, as well as 
quickly surface temps rise above freezing. The implications would be 
greater inland regarding ice accretion as the surface cold air 
likely takes the longest to dislodge across the interior of NE NJ, 
Lower Hudson Valley, and interior CT. Still even cannot completely 
rule out a brief period of freezing rain for coastal areas, but it's 
currently not in the forecast. With that said, there is high enough 
confidence that there will be impacts with slippery/hazardous 
conditions. After collaboration with the surrounding areas, have 
decided to issue a Winter Wx Advisory for the combination of snow 
and ice accretion for interior southern CT, most of the Lower Hudson 
Valley and parts of NE NJ. Looking at up to 2 inches of snow with up 
to an tenth of an inch of ice accumulation late Wednesday night 
through early Thursday afternoon. Plain rain expected thereafter.

&&

.LONG TERM /THURSDAY NIGHT THROUGH TUESDAY/...
Conditions dry out Thu ngt as the upr trof approaches the region and 
shifts everything out to sea. It still looks windy on Fri, with the 
GFS still putting out 40kt at h85. The blended sfc data looks too 
low with this, so manually brought winds up including gusts to 35kt 
for the entire area. Could be a few higher gusts so a wind advy 
possible with deep subsidence from jet lvl. Otherwise, dry wx Fri 
into early Sat with the NBM generally used for temps.

Clouds thicken on Sat with chances for snow increasing. The best 
chances for the snow to break out are late in the day aft 18Z. The 
most significant pcpn comes in Sat ngt per the 12Z modeling, then 
tapers off during the first part of Sun. Leaned on the NBM pops for 
timing, but as confidence in timing increases going forward, the 
window for pops will likely shrink. Both the GFS and ECMWF are done 
by 12Z Sun. This sys looks to be another mixed bag event based on 
the track and nature of the low. Would expect a couple of inches of 
snow changing to sleet and fzra across the interior before perhaps 
ending as some lgt rain or dz, with less snow transitioning to sleet 
then rain at the coasts.

Another shot of cold air then comes in for the beginning of next 
week at least. Although the overall pattern generally exhibits a 
positive tilt, an active srn stream could still allow for another 
round of wintry wx by the middle of next week.

&&

.AVIATION /05Z WEDNESDAY THROUGH SUNDAY/...
High pressure builds overnight and settles over the area on 
Wednesday.

VFR.

Winds will continue to weaken through tonight as any gusts should 
end by 5-7z, with sustained winds settling on either side of 10kt. 
Thereafter the winds should settle at 5-12kt tomorrow out of the 
NW/NNW.

 ...NY Metro (KEWR/KLGA/KJFK/KTEB) TAF Uncertainty...

No amendments are expected. 


.OUTLOOK FOR 0Z THURSDAY THROUGH SUNDAY... 

Wednesday night: MVFR or lower cond in light snow after midnight. 

Thursday: MVFR or lower cond with light snow/sleet to start.
Precip should change to rain after about 14Z-15Z at the NYC metros 
and KISP, by about 17Z at KBDR/KGON, and could transition to 
freezing rain at KSWF mid to late morning before changing to rain by 
18Z. Snowfall amounts should be light, mainly either side of an inch.

Thursday night: Rain ending with cond becoming VFR. 

Friday: VFR. W winds G20-25kt. 

Saturday: Chance of snow with IFR cond in the afternoon. Snow 
changing to a wintry mix expected at night. 

Sunday: Precip should change over to all rain by daybreak Sunday 
except for KSWF. MVFR to IFR at times. Becoming VFR as precip ends 
during Sunday afternoon.

Detailed information, including hourly TAF wind component forecasts, 
can be found at: https:/www.weather.gov/zny/n90

&&

.MARINE...
Winds and seas have subsided below SCA levels west of Moriches
Inlet. Therefore, the Advisory here has been cancelled. Will let
the Advisory east of Moriches Inlet run through 4 am as seas and
winds look slower to subside. 

A relatively tranquil period will then be in place during Wednesday 
into Wednesday night as a high pressure ridge shifts through the 
waters. The next chance of SCA conds will be on Thursday, and mainly 
on the ocean waters as a low pressure center passing through 
increases the wind and swell.

NW flow gales likely on Fri, then cond improve for Sat. A SCA may be 
needed on Sun with low pres passing thru the region. There is a chc 
for gales particularly on the ocean depending on the track and 
intensity of the low. Gradual improvement is expected Mon attm.

&&

.HYDROLOGY...
There are no hydrologic concerns through the forecast period.

&&

.OKX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CT...Winter Weather Advisory from 4 AM to 1 PM EST Thursday for 
     CTZ005>008.
NY...Winter Weather Advisory from 4 AM to 1 PM EST Thursday for 
     NYZ067>070.
NJ...Winter Weather Advisory from 4 AM to 1 PM EST Thursday for 
     NJZ002-004-103-105-107.
MARINE...Small Craft Advisory until 4 AM EST Wednesday for ANZ350.

&&

$$

SYNOPSIS...JMC/JC
NEAR TERM...JC/DS
SHORT TERM...JC
LONG TERM...JMC
AVIATION...JE
MARINE...JMC/JC
HYDROLOGY...JMC/JC
