545 
FXUS61 KOKX 100340
AFDOKX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service New York NY
1040 PM EST Sun Feb 9 2025

.SYNOPSIS...
Low pressure over the western Atlantic continues to pull away 
from the area while high pressure builds in from the west 
through Tuesday morning. A series of lows will then impact the 
area Tuesday night through the weekend.

&&

.NEAR TERM /UNTIL 6 AM MONDAY MORNING/...
Special Weather Statement remains in effect for icy conditions 
on area roadways through the Monday morning commute due to the 
refreezing of melted snow/ice.

Low pressure continues to exit well out into the western 
Atlantic tonight, with surface high pressure over the Central 
US building east. 

Mid level clouds well north of low pressure will keep much of 
the night mostly cloudy. 

Overnight lows range from the low to mid 20s along the coast to
the teens inland.

&&

.SHORT TERM /6 AM MONDAY MORNING THROUGH MONDAY NIGHT/...
High pressure continues to build into the region from the Midwest
Monday.

Skies will feature more sun than on Sunday, though sct cu 
development in the afternoon should preclude entirely sunny skies.
Conditions remain dry. Temperatures top out in the mid 30s for 
most with the BL mixing to about 850 mb. The light snowpack will
likely continue to constrain temps a bit, so went a couple of 
degrees cooler than blended guidance.

The high moves overhead Monday night and winds lighten or calm. 
Temperatures fall back a few degrees more than recent nights, but 
incoming high level moisture well ahead of the next system may limit 
more efficient radiative cooling. Overnight lows progged in the low 
teens well inland, to low 20s along the coast.

&&

.LONG TERM /TUESDAY THROUGH SUNDAY/...
Zonal flow aloft for Tuesday and Tuesday night will help keep a weak 
area of low pressure to our south as it develops near the Mid-
Atlantic coast and heads east into the western Atlantic. The right- 
entrance region of a strong upper jet streak will be over us and 
allow for expansion of the low's precip shield into the forecast 
area. Light snow likely Tuesday night for approx the southern half 
of the forecast area with a 40-50% chance of snow for the northern 
half. Snow accumulations up to 2 inches expected.

Surface high pressure builds slightly to our northeast during 
Wednesday with upper confluence. Thinking is that surface ridging 
over here will be strong enough to hold off any precipitation 
through the daytime hours, but decided to leave in a slight chance 
of snow for some areas. Precip is then expected Wednesday night and 
Thursday with a familiar pattern of primary low pressure passing to 
our NW while a weaker secondary low shifts nearby or through the 
forecast area. This would send an elevated warm nose through, 
changing snow to a wintry mix Wednesday night before an eventual 
changeover to rain on Thursday as enough warm air pushes in. Right 
now it appears that snow/sleet accumulations would be on the light 
side before the changeover to rain. Can't rule out a little freezing 
rain north and west of the city either.

Colder air filters back in from the NW Thursday night as high 
pressure builds back in behind the departing storm. Dry weather will 
be likely for this period as models have trended faster with the 
storm. Dry weather then remains for Friday and Friday night with 
high pressure in control. Another storm then likely brings a wintry 
mix possibly by the end of the day Saturday, but more likely 
Saturday night and Sunday. Not so sure that this will be another 
case of a primary/secondary low center bringing in a warm nose 
aloft, so kept precip types simplified to rain, snow or a mix of the 
two.

&&

.AVIATION /04Z MONDAY THROUGH FRIDAY/...
Low pressure over the western Atlantic will continue to pull 
away from the area while high pressure builds in from the west 
into Monday.

Some low end VFR stratus (around 3.5 to 4 kft) scatters out  
this evening. VFR expected through the TAF period.

NW winds subside tonight to near 5-10 kt and then pick back up 
to near 10-12 kt Monday with some gusts 15-20 kt developing in 
the afternoon. 

 ...NY Metro (KEWR/KLGA/KJFK/KTEB) TAF Uncertainty... 

Winds at times tonight, especially through 06Z may be more
westerly.

Amendments possible for timing of gusts which could be 1-2 hours 
different from TAF. Gusts Monday afternoon may very well just be 
intermittent.

.OUTLOOK FOR 00Z TUESDAY THROUGH FRIDAY... 

Monday Night: VFR.

Tuesday: Mainly VFR during the day. Increasing chance of snow 
at night, eventually becoming likely, mainly at the coastal 
terminals. IFR/LIFR conditions possible.

Wednesday: Chance of snow with IFR/MVFR early. Brief return to
VFR possible. However, another chance of snow/wintry mix with 
IFR to MVFR at night. E gusts 15-20 kt afternoon and at night 
along coast.

Thursday: MVFR/IFR in a wintry mix to rain mainly during the day. NW 
wind gusts 15-20 kt developing at night.

Friday: VFR. NW wind gusts 15-20 kt during the day.

Detailed information, including hourly TAF wind component forecasts, 
can be found at: https:/www.weather.gov/zny/n90

&&

.MARINE...
The flow lightens tonight as high pressure builds in and allows
wind and seas to lower as well. Expect sub-SCA conditions 
expected on all waters through Wednesday. An onshore flow 
increases Wednesday night into Thursday morning with the 
approach of low pressure approaching from the south and west. 
Advisory-level gusts anticipated on all waters during this 
period. Winds then shift offshore Thursday afternoon after a 
brief lull before increasing once again Thursday night with SCA 
conditions probable on all waters. Winds weaken on Friday with 
advisory conditions remaining mostly on the ocean waters.

&&

.HYDROLOGY...
There are no hydrologic concerns through the forecast period.

&&

.OKX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CT...None.
NY...None.
NJ...None.
MARINE...None.

&&

$$

SYNOPSIS...JC/DR
NEAR TERM...JC/DR/DW
SHORT TERM...DR
LONG TERM...JC
AVIATION...DW
MARINE...JC/DR
HYDROLOGY...JC/DR
