899 
FXUS61 KOKX 201049
AFDOKX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service New York NY
549 AM EST Mon Jan 20 2025

.SYNOPSIS...
Low pressure tracks into the Canadian Maritimes today, allowing
high pressure to build in from the west through the middle of 
the week. The high remains over the region Thursday and into the
weekend as a frontal system passes offshore Thursday and 
Thursday night. The high weakens Sunday as a cold front 
approaches from the northwest.

&&

.NEAR TERM /THROUGH TONIGHT/...
The fcst is on track. Gusty NW/WNW flow today. The highest gust
potential may be in the 12-16Z time frame with NW flow, 
stronger winds aloft and subsidence. The flow backs a little to 
the WNW this aftn and winds aloft lessen a bit. Chance for some 
sct-bkn cu to develop around 4k ft as well. The NBM and MOS were
close so went with the NBM for highs.

Time heights indicate clearing skies tngt, then an increase in
high clouds possible by sunrise Tue. With some fresh snow cover
shaved a degree off the NBM low temps. Winds progged to lessen
with only about 20kt at h85, so that will be the wind chill
limiting factor. The current fcst does not reach cold wx advy
criteria, so nothing issued attm. It will still be cold with min
apparent temps in the single digits blw zero.

&&

.SHORT TERM /TUESDAY THROUGH WEDNESDAY NIGHT/...
Continued cold thru Wed ngt. Apparent temps thru the period 
still not quite at advy criteria. Some of the coldest spots Tue 
ngt get to around zero or slightly blw. To do this though the 
winds need to go nearly calm, so little difference between wind 
chill and actual temps. The NBM was followed, with a few local 
adjustments, thru the period. Temps stay blw freezing the entire
time. 

H5 trof comes thru Tue ngt and is modeled to be dry. The passage
of the trof appears to keep low pres offshore from impacting the
area attm. The NBM has captured the swd trend and pops have 
been reduced across the cwa accordingly. Highest pops for this 
event are across LI and only in the 20 percent range. Unless the
upr trof slows down or acquires more of a neg tilt, pops should
continue to trend towards zero.

&&

.LONG TERM /THURSDAY THROUGH SUNDAY/...
A cold airmass remains in place for Thursday, although temperatures 
will be moderating, into Saturday as high pressure generally 
dominates. A frontal system will be passing south and east of the 
area Thursday into Thursday night. The track is a little farther to 
the west, however, will maintain slight chance probabilities for 
light snow. Temperatures from Thursday through Saturday remain well 
below normal. With the high weakening and drifting south Saturday 
into Sunday temperatures will moderate further, and be close to 
normal levels. A trough and cold front will be approaching from the 
northwest Saturday into Sunday, and with little moisture a few snow 
showers will be possible. A more zonal flow for the weekend will 
allow another trough to amplify into the northeast with surface low 
pressure developing, and there will be chances for snow for the 
beginning of next week.

&&

.AVIATION /12Z MONDAY THROUGH FRIDAY/...
High pressure builds in through the forecast period as low pressure 
near Nova Scotia tracks northeast into early this morning.

VFR across the terminals through the forecast period. Brief MVFR 
remains possible, generally east of KBDR and KISP as light snow was 
tracking to the east.

A gusty W to NW flow continues into this evening, however, gusts may 
drop off briefly, or become more occasional, prior to and just after 
daybreak, but are expected to return. Gusts end this evening, 
between 23Z-01Z.

 ...NY Metro (KEWR/KLGA/KJFK/KTEB) TAF Uncertainty...

No unscheduled amendments expected.

.OUTLOOK FOR 06Z TUESDAY THROUGH FRIDAY...

Late Monday night: VFR. 

Tuesday: VFR. W wind gusts around 20 kt.

Wednesday: Chance of MVFR or lower in -SN, particularly coastal 
terminals.

Thursday: VFR.

Friday: Mainly VFR, Chance of MVFR in light snow.

Detailed information, including hourly TAF wind component forecasts, 
can be found at: https:/www.weather.gov/zny/n90

&&

.MARINE...
Gusty NW flow backs to the WNW this aftn. A SCA remains in
effect for all waters with some lgt freezing spray possible.
Winds mrgnl tngt on the protected waters, so the advy was not
extended there and only remains on the ocean. Winds diminish
further on Tue, and all waters might stay blw sca lvls. Some
freezing spray still possible. Better confidence that winds and
seas are blw sca lvls on Wed.

Winds and seas will remain below SCA levels across the forecast 
waters Thursday through Friday. A strengthening northwest flow Friday 
night as low pressure passes offshore may allow for wind gusts and 
seas to be near SCA levels east of Moriches Inlet and across the 
Long Island eastern bays Friday night into Saturday.

&&

.HYDROLOGY...
No hydrologic issues are anticipated through Sunday.

&&

.OKX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CT...None.
NY...None.
NJ...None.
MARINE...Small Craft Advisory until 6 PM EST this evening for ANZ331-
     332-335-338-340-345.
     Small Craft Advisory until 7 AM EST Tuesday for ANZ350-353-355.

&&

$$

SYNOPSIS...JMC/MET
NEAR TERM...JMC
SHORT TERM...JMC
LONG TERM...MET
AVIATION...MET
MARINE...JMC/MET
HYDROLOGY...JMC/MET
