296 
FXUS61 KOKX 162118
AFDOKX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service New York NY
418 PM EST Sun Feb 16 2025

.SYNOPSIS...
Deepening low pressure over the New York metropolitan area early
this evening tracks well to the northeast this evening. The low
will be nearly stationary over southeastern Canada late tonight
through Monday. Strong high pressure over south central Canada 
moves into the northern plains Monday night and Tuesday, 
gradually building into the region from the west. Strong arctic
high pressure builds in from the north and west Wednesday. An 
area of low pressure ejects off the Southeast US coast Wednesday
night and passes well south and east of the area Thursday. High
pressure builds in from the west for the end of the week and 
into next weekend.

&&

.NEAR TERM /UNTIL 6 AM MONDAY MORNING/...
The secondary low was deepening over the New York City metro
area at 20Z with a warm front through Long Island, reaching the
north shore. The warm front may reach into coastal Connecticut
before the low tracks northeast and a cold front moves through
early this evening. The low reaches southeastern Canada this
evening and then remains nearly stationary. With cold advection
and strong gradient westerly flow, gusts are still expected to 
reach Wind Advisory levels this evening, 45 to near 55 mph, and
continue into Monday. The Wind Advisory remains in effect 
through Monday afternoon for the entire region.

&&

.SHORT TERM /6 AM MONDAY MORNING THROUGH TUESDAY/...
The Wind Advisory continues through Monday afternoon. By late
day winds at the top of the mixed layer will begin to diminish,
and cold advection will be weakening. However, gusty west flow
will be continuing into Tuesday as high pressure builds slowly
into the region.

Cold air will remain over the region with temperatures Monday
and Monday night 5 to 10 degrees below normals, and with highs
Tuesday remaining in the 20s, temperatures will ne near 15
degrees below normal.

&&

.LONG TERM /TUESDAY NIGHT THROUGH SUNDAY/...
* The potential continues to decrease for a winter storm in the
  Wed night - Thursday night time frame.

1050-1054 mb arctic high pressure continues to nose in from the 
north and west Tuesday night, keeping the region dry through the day 
Wednesday. As the arctic air moves south, a baroclinic zone sets up 
over the southern states, allowing low pressure to begin to take 
shape. This low then treks east along the gulf states, and ejects 
off the Southeast US coast Wednesday night, then tracks northeast 
into Thursday, pulling away from the area Thursday night.

With the current deterministic model suite, most models track the 
low well east of the 40/70 benchmark. Current NBM forecast also 
shows an all snow forecast, leading to higher confidence in an all 
snow event. However, these models have a storm track much farther 
east than in previous forecast runs, pushing more moisture out to 
sea with it. As such, the chances for a significant winter storm has 
decreased. 

As for ensembles, current ECMWF ensemble give coastal areas a 10-30% 
chance of 24 total precip of great than half an inch liquid 
equivalent, down from 30-40% from yesterday, while the same metric 
is only 10-20% with the GFS ensemble which is about the same as 
yesterday. Current NBM probability of 0.60" of liquid equivalent 
(Winter Storm Warning criteria in 12 hours with 10:1 ratio) shows a 
10-30% chance in 12 hours. The higher probabilities are being pushed 
farther east with each successive model run, showing the trend of 
moisture being pushed offshore.

Low pressure treks northeast Thursday night into Friday while high 
pressure builds in from the west. This high will remain west of the 
area through much of the weekend, providing dry, but cold 
conditions.

&&

.AVIATION /21Z SUNDAY THROUGH FRIDAY/...
A warm front lifting through the city and eastern terminals 
will quickly be followed by a cold front as low pressure tracks 
into the Northeast. High pressure slowly builds behind the front
on Monday.

Widespread IFR/LIFR conditions continue at most terminals 
through this afternoon with vsby lowering to IFR at times in 
rain and fog. Cold front moves through the area terminals 
between 23-00Z with CIGS improving to MVFR, then VFR.

LLWS from the SW increase this afternoon to 30-50 knots. Will
continue to mention in TAFs for KJFK, KISP, KBDR, and KGON due 
to proximity to the low level jet. Winds become S-SW and gusty 
after warm fropa, then shift W with cold fropa early this 
evening and increase to 20-30 kt with gusts 35-45 kt. Winds
remain gusty through late Monday, then begins to diminish 
Monday night.

 ...NY Metro (KEWR/KLGA/KJFK/KTEB) TAF Uncertainty...

Amendments may be needed for changing flight categories this
afternoon/evening. 

.OUTLOOK FOR 18Z MONDAY THROUGH FRIDAY...

Monday: VFR. W winds G35-40kt, diminishing at night.

Tuesday: VFR. W winds G25 kt. 

Wednesday: VFR. 

Wednesday night: Becoming IFR in snow.

Thursday: MVFR / IFR in snow. N winds G20kt, becoming NW G25kt late 
in the day and at night. 

Friday: VFR.

Detailed information, including hourly TAF wind component forecasts, 
can be found at: https:/www.weather.gov/zny/n90

&&

.MARINE...
A Storm Warning remains in effect for the ocean waters into
early Monday afternoon. Gale Warnings remain on the non ocean 
waters through Monday evening, except through Monday night for
the eastern Long Island Sound, and the eastern Long Island bays.

Once the storm warning ends on the ocean waters, gales will be 
likely into Monday evening, except on the eastern ocean waters
where gales will be likely through Monday night.

These strong winds are associated with a deepening low that
tracks northeast tonight and remains over the Canadian
Maritimes late tonight through Monday, with a cold frontal 
passage across the waters this evening with a west flow.

With cold air moving into the forecast waters tonight, and
remaining into at least Tuesday, and in combination of strong
winds and high seas, there is a chance of light freezing spray
Monday night through Tuesday. At this time with the light 
freezing spray ice accretion per hour is expected to remain 
below 0.3 inches per hour, and a Freezing Spray Advisory is not 
likely to be needed.

Also, with the strong westerly flow driving water offshore,
tidal departures will be approaching low water thresholds 
across the south shore back bays, especially for the late day 
Monday and early Tuesday low tide cycles.

Winds of 25 to 30 kt continue Wednesday night for all waters, 
but diminish as the night progresses. Non ocean waters should 
fall below 25 kt late at night, but ocean waters may hang on to 
some 25 kt gusts through daybreak Wednesday. Thereafter, winds 
remain below SCA criteria through Wednesday night. A coastal 
storm may impact the waters on Wednesday night into Thursday, 
and 25 kt gusts may come back into the picture for ocean waters 
Thursday into Thursday night, but this is dependent on the storm
track, which has been progressing farther east with each run. 
If this trend continues, the higher gusts may push east as well.

4 to 7 ft waves on Tuesday night for the ocean waters diminish 
through the night, and should fall be 5 ft on all ocean waters 
at or just after daybreak Wednesday. The central sound may see 
some 5 ft waves as well, but should fall below 5 ft around or 
just after midnight. Waves then remain below 5 ft through 
Thursday, but build to 5 to 7 ft Thursday night. Waves diminish 
Thursday night into Friday. Again, this would all be dependent 
on the track of the coastal storm.

&&

.HYDROLOGY...
No hydrologic impacts are expected into the beginning of next
weekend.

&&

.OKX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CT...Wind Advisory until 6 PM EST Monday for CTZ005>012.
NY...Wind Advisory until 6 PM EST Monday for NYZ067>075-078>081-
     176>179.
NJ...Wind Advisory until 6 PM EST Monday for NJZ002-004-006-103>108.
MARINE...Gale Warning until 6 AM EST Tuesday for ANZ331-332-340.
     Gale Warning until midnight EST Monday night for ANZ335-338-
     345.
     Storm Warning until 1 PM EST Monday for ANZ350-353-355.

&&

$$

SYNOPSIS...JP/MET
NEAR TERM...MET
SHORT TERM...MET
LONG TERM...JP
AVIATION...20
MARINE...JP/MET
HYDROLOGY...JP/MET
