447 
FXUS61 KOKX 061817
AFDOKX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service New York NY
217 PM EDT Fri Jun 6 2025

.SYNOPSIS...
A cold front slowly approaches the area today before passing through 
on Saturday afternoon into evening. Weak high pressure then briefly 
follows for Sunday followed by a series of weak lows passing to the 
south and east Sunday night into Monday. A slow moving frontal system 
will then work across the area Tuesday into early Wednesday. High
pressure returns later in the day Wednesday and remains near the
region through Friday.

&&

.NEAR TERM /THROUGH TONIGHT/...
A surface trough lingers over or nearby the far NW portion of the 
forecast area today. Meanwhile, shortwave lift approaches from the 
west and passes through this afternoon into tonight. This forcing is 
progged to be over the NW half of the area, and along with CAPES of 
1000-2000 J/kg, this is where the better chances of showers and 
thunderstorms will be during this period. Thunderstorms could be 
strong given the CAPE, but shear is weak, so the threat of severe 
storms is limited. The weak shear will however promote slow-moving 
storm cells. PWATs will be highest (near 2 inches) in the vicinity 
of the surface trough where moisture convergence will be greatest, 
and the mid level flow, while weak, will still be parallel to the 
horizontal orientation of this moisture convergence. This will then 
promote the chances of training for any of these relatively slow-
morning cells that may develop. The highest threat of flooding 
impacts will therefore be over the far NW zones, where HREF 1 and 3-
hour rainfall exceedance probabilities are the highest, and where WPC 
maintains a marginal risk of flash flooding. Any flooding will more 
likely be minor, but cannot rule out isolated flash flooding here. 
Also can't rule out minor/poor drainage flooding for the rest of the 
Lower Hudson Valley and adjacent areas.

The rain threat then lowers late evening, but begins to increase 
late at night, particularly for the NW portions where the surface 
boundary remains and another shortwave approaches. CAPEs will be 
much lower by this time, so left out thunder for the late night 
hours. Otherwise, low temps above normal across the area and 
probably at least some patchy fog overnight for parts of LI and CT 
with a continued light onshore flow.

&&

.SHORT TERM /SATURDAY THROUGH SUNDAY NIGHT/...
A pre-frontal trough and shortwave pass through during Saturday 
morning, followed by a cold front during the afternoon and evening. 
Showers likely for all but eastern LI and SE CT, but even here 
chances are still 30-50%. Instability will be lower this time, but 
thunderstorms remain possible. Severe storms not anticipated with 
lower CAPE and shear remaining weak. Flooding impacts not 
anticipated either with less training potential and faster forward 
motion as compared to today. There should be less in the way of 
clouds during the afternoon, and high temperatures probably end up a 
few degrees above normal in most cases.

High pressure builds in behind the departing cold front after 
Saturday evening. This likely keeps us dry through the daytime on 
Sunday, but still can't rule out some light rain in the afternoon, 
mainly from around the city to points west. Rain chances then 
increase at night as a broad area of low pressure approaches from the 
south and west. Have PoPs capped at 50% for the time being, but 
based on trends over the past day, might need to bump up chances 
with subsequent updates. Highs for Sunday near normal in spite of an 
abundance of mid to high level clouds.

&&

.LONG TERM /MONDAY THROUGH THURSDAY/...
Stayed close to the NBM/previous forecast However, there continues 
to be some timing and placement issues with some weather features 
towards the beginning of the long term period. 

The long term period starts off with a broad upper level trough over 
the area with a series of weak lows expected to pass near the region 
Monday into Tuesday. There is some uncertainty with the location of 
a weak surface low passing to the south Sunday night into Monday 
morning. Like its previous run, the 00Z GFS is far enough to the 
south to keep the area dry. Meanwhile the ECMWF is far enough north 
to bring some rainfall to the region, however not as wet as the 12z 
run yesterday. The NBM for now has around a 20 POP for Monday 
morning, with some drier conditions for Monday afternoon.  

POPs increase again Monday night into Tuesday as a frontal system 
works into the area. The best chances for rain at this time looks to 
be Tuesday afternoon/evening. Will continue to carry a chance of 
thunder, however, instability looks to be marginal at this time. The 
cold front pushes across the region late Tuesday night into early 
Wednesday morning. High pressure then builds in behind the front. 
Can not rule out a few isolated showers Wednesday afternoon as the 
upper low is a bit slower to depart. Dry weather then follows for 
Thursday and Friday. 

With cloud cover and rain chances, expect temperatures to remain in 
the lower to middle 70s Monday and Tuesday. Temperatures then 
gradually warm Wednesday through Friday, with temperatures in the 
upper 70s and 80s.

&&

.AVIATION /18Z FRIDAY THROUGH WEDNESDAY/...
A frontal boundary remains near the area through the TAF 
period.

VFR this afternoon and much of the night outside of any showers
and thunderstorms. There is a chance for showers and 
thunderstorms which could produce MVFR or lower conditions this 
afternoon and evening. The best chances will be across the NYC 
metro terminals and locations north and west. 

Forecast guidance also indicating MVFR vsbys and IFR cigs
developing overnight. Any development should occur after 06z.
There is a little concern that the guidance may be a bit too
aggressive, but more for the metro terminals and points north
and west. Chances are increasing for IFR conditions for coastal
terminals such as KISP, KBDR, and KGON. These areas are where NBM
probabilities are highest for IFR conditions. Additionally, 
KFOK reported BKN005 briefly earlier this afternoon, so these 
conditions are out there. 

Light SE-SSW winds should turn more to the S to SSW this
afternoon around 10 kt or less. Occasional gusts between 15 to 
20 kt are possible. Winds become light tonight and early 
Saturday morning. Winds Saturday morning should shift more to
the SW then W by late morning as the cold front slowly makes 
some headway through terminals. 

 ...NY Metro (KEWR/KLGA/KJFK/KTEB) TAF Uncertainty...

Amendments possible for timing of shower/thunderstorm potential
this evening.

IFR conditions possible late tonight, Hughes chances for KJFK,
lowest for KEWR and KTEB.

.OUTLOOK FOR 18Z SATURDAY THROUGH WEDNESDAY... 

Saturday: MVFR/IFR and showers possible. Chance of a 
thunderstorms in the afternoon.

Sunday: VFR daytime. Chance of MVFR and showers at night.

Monday: VFR. Slight chance of showers in the early morning, 
then again late at night. 

Tuesday: MVFR or lower possible with chance of showers in the 
morning, then a chance of showers and thunderstorms in the 
afternoon and evening.

Detailed information, including hourly TAF wind component forecasts, 
can be found at: https:/www.weather.gov/zny/n90

&&

.MARINE...
Winds and waves are expected to remain below SCA levels on all 
waters through at least Saturday morning. Waves may reach 5 feet on 
the ocean starting midday Saturday. With it being a late 3rd period 
start, have decided to hold off on a SCA to see if models trend 
lower with wave height forecasts. 5 ft seas could potentially
linger into Saturday night.

Thereafter, expect sub-advisory conditions through Tuesday. Waves of
low pressure passing to the south and a southerly swell will 
keep seas on the ocean 3 to 4 ft. Chances increase for marginal 
SCA conditions for seas around 5 ft Tuesday night into 
Wednesday. Seas should then fall below SCA conditions on 
Thursday.

&&

.HYDROLOGY...
Rain amounts of a half inch to inch are expected today through 
Saturday afternoon, but mainly from around the city to points north 
and west. The higher amounts will more likely occur over the Lower 
Hudson Valley, and amounts higher than an inch are possible here. 
See the near term section above for potential impacts.

No widespread hydrologic impacts otherwise for Saturday night through 
Monday. 

Showers and thunderstorms Tuesday into Tuesday night may produce at 
least minor nuisance flooding. Low confidence at this time regarding 
potential impacts this far ahead in time.

&&

.TIDES/COASTAL FLOODING...
There is a moderate rip current risk today for the Atlantic 
beaches, but a building SE swell with waves around 5 feet will 
result in a high risk for Saturday.

&&

.OKX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CT...Air Quality Alert until 11 PM EDT this evening for CTZ005-009.
NY...None.
NJ...None.
MARINE...None.

&&

$$

SYNOPSIS...BC/JC
NEAR TERM...JC
SHORT TERM...JC
LONG TERM...BC
AVIATION...DBR
MARINE...BC/JC
HYDROLOGY...BC/JC
TIDES/COASTAL FLOODING...
