438 
FXUS61 KOKX 150622
AFDOKX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service New York NY
222 AM EDT Tue Apr 15 2025

.SYNOPSIS...
A frontal system moves through the area this morning. A series 
of weak troughs of low pressure pivot through by mid week. High 
pressure builds in to the west Wednesday night and slides south 
of the area Thursday, and pushes offshore Thursday night and 
Friday. A frontal system may impact the region Friday night 
through Saturday night. High pressure returns for Sunday. 
Another frontal system may impact the area late Monday.

&&

.NEAR TERM /THROUGH TODAY/...
Approaching frontal system is just starting to move through the
area. Mainly just light rain associated with it is moving
through, with a few rumbles of thunder being seen.

The boundary at the sfc gets east of the area quickly this 
morning with the winds starting to gust towards late morning and
around midday. The winds during the afternoon should gust to 
around 35 mph, with a few gust perhaps getting briefly to 40 mph
towards 21- 22z. The lowest levels will gradually get drier 
through the day, that by afternoon a quasi V-type sounding is 
indicated via BUFKIT profiles. There are some indications of mid
level CAPE as mid and upper levels cool as the upper level low 
generates somewhat of a synoptic B type sounding with lowering 
near sfc dew points. This indicates a chance of some scattered 
lower top type convection. Any activity would be widely 
scattered with only minimal CAPE available at around 100 j/kg. 
With the cloud layer quite dry any shower activity may be able 
to generate localized 40 to 45 kt gusts, but with coverage in 
question as the average RH in the column lowers through the 
afternoon. In summary, the degree of coverage of any shower / 
convective activity is in doubt resulting in a lower confidence 
forecast. Will therefore go with chance PoPs and for now will 
keep out any enhanced wording with regard to any strong wind 
gusts or small hail / graupel potential. If confidence of 
occurrence grows subsequent shifts can add any necessary details
into the official forecast. Variable amounts of clouds are 
anticipated into the late afternoon with temperatures climbing 
above normal with lots of lower and middle 60s, with a few upper
60s possible which is above normal for mid April.

&&

.SHORT TERM /TONIGHT THROUGH 6 PM WEDNESDAY/...
For early Tuesday evening there may still be a few isolated 
sprinkles/ showers but with the lower portion of the column 
getting drier overall with cold advection. With a pressure 
gradient still in place winds will remain gusty overall. With 
the winds remaining in place temperatures should only get back 
into the upper 30s to lower 40s, but it will feel a good 7 to 10
degrees colder with the wind.

On Wednesday a deep layered W to NW flow will continue as low 
pressure will continue to move through the Canadian maritimes 
and the NW Atlantic. This, along with high pressure back over 
the Tennessee Valley the region will remain in a fairly tight 
pressure gradient. This will keep breezy conditions in place 
with winds likely gusting to around 30 mph throughout much of 
the day. A W to WNW flow this time of year can typically lead to
warmer than expected temperatures. However, a strong cP air 
mass will be building across and should keep temperatures below 
average with mainly lower half of the 50s for daytime highs 
despite a fair amount of sunshine.

&&

.LONG TERM /WEDNESDAY NIGHT THROUGH MONDAY/...
Generally a tranquil extended period as high pressure will be 
building into area Wednesday night, and moving offshore Thursday
night into Friday. There is a little more uncertainty with the 
forecast for Friday night through Saturday night as an upper 
trough passing north of the region is now a little more 
amplified, and a zonal flow may set up across the region, 
allowing a frontal boundary to linger across the region. While 
there is some forcing along the frontal boundary, moisture is 
more limited, and light precipitation will be possible for an 
extended period of time. A high amplitude ridge then builds in 
for Sunday into Monday, and may slow the eastward progression of
the next system for the beginning of next week. The 
deterministic NBM guidance was generally followed with few 
targets of opportunity early in the period, and with uncertainty
later in the forecast period. Only went toward the 75th and 
90th percentiles for winds and gusts Wednesday night and 
Thursday, with the potential for gusty conditions.

Temperatures will only be up to 5 degrees below normal 
Wednesday night through Thursday night, and then with a return 
flow and increasing southerly wind temperatures increase to 
above normal Friday night through Saturday night, with 
Saturday's highs potentially 10 to 15 degrees above normal.

&&

.AVIATION /06Z TUESDAY THROUGH SATURDAY/...
A frontal system will impact the area late tonight into 
Tuesday. High pressure builds in Tuesday night.

VFR conditions overnight into early hours of Tuesday. However, 
an approaching warm front is expected to bring brief MVFR 
conditions for southern and eastern terminals (KJFK, KISP, KBDR,
and KGON) between 11Z and 14Z, though there is some uncertainty
in timing and location, with a moderate chance of MVFR
conditions for KLGA, KEWR, KTEB, and KHPN. After 14Z, VFR 
conditions expected for all terminals except for KGON where VFR
conditions do not look to return until mid afternoon, 16Z.

Showers are currently moving through the terminals as of 06Z and
will continue through 07Z-11Z (possibly ending earlier).
Thereafter, showers associated with cold frontal passage may
affect all terminals from 17Z-23Z. Instability is weak and a 
thunderstorm seems unlikely at this time. However, a passing
thunderstorms cannot be ruled out. Any showers could produce
wind gusts up to 40 kt. 

Winds for a time overnight may go light and variable, 
especially across the NYC terminals and KISP as the warm front 
will be in close proximity. WSW winds gradually ramp up late
tonight into the morning to 10-15kt with G20kt, then 20-25kt. 
G30-35kt in the afternoon following a cold frontal passage. 

 ...NY Metro (KEWR/KLGA/KJFK/KTEB) TAF Uncertainty... 

There is a moderate chance of MVFR conditions at KLGA, KEWR and
KTEB, mainly from 11Z-13Z, but confidence was not high enough to
put in TAFS. Onset of higher winds and gusts early Tuesday 
morning may be an hour or two earlier. And a few gusts during 
the afternoon may approach 40kt in gusty showers.


.OUTLOOK FOR 06Z WEDNESDAY THROUGH SATURDAY...

Tuesday night: VFR. W winds G25-30kt.

Wednesday: VFR. WNW winds G25-30kt. 

Thursday: VFR. NW winds G20-25kt.

Friday: VFR. Chance of showers at night. S winds G15-20kt.

Saturday: Chance of MVFR in showers. SW winds G15-20kt. 

Detailed information, including hourly TAF wind component forecasts, 
can be found at: https:/www.weather.gov/zny/n90

&&

.MARINE...
No changes to winds and seas at this time.

Small craft conditions develop from west to east quickly 
Tuesday. A few marginal gale force gusts are possible for some 
of the western waters late in the day and into a portion of 
Tuesday evening. Otherwise, small craft conditions should 
persist at least through the day Wednesday and possibly into a 
portion of Wednesday night as low pressure tracks north and high
pressure builds to the west. Ocean seas east of Fire Island 
Inlet may linger about 5 feet until toward Thursday morning. 
Therefore, will not extend the SCA into Wednesday night at this 
time, as timing is uncertain. 

Winds and seas remain below advisory levels through Friday. 
Then with an increasing southerly flow ahead of the next frontal
system small craft conditions will be developing on the ocean 
waters Friday night, and continue through Saturday. And, gusts 
will be near 25 kt across the Long Island bays, and eastern Long
Island Sound Friday night through Saturday. Conditions then 
subside late Saturday through Saturday night, falling below 
advisory levels by Sunday morning, as high pressure builds into 
the forecast waters.

&&

.HYDROLOGY...
There are no hydrologic concerns throughout the forecast period.

&&

.OKX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CT...None.
NY...None.
NJ...None.
MARINE...Small Craft Advisory from 2 PM this afternoon to 6 PM EDT 
     Wednesday for ANZ331-332-340-345-350-353.
     Small Craft Advisory from noon today to 6 PM EDT Wednesday for 
     ANZ335-338-355.

&&

$$

SYNOPSIS...JE/MET
NEAR TERM...JE/MET/JT
SHORT TERM...JE
LONG TERM...MET
AVIATION...JP
MARINE...JE/MET
HYDROLOGY...JE/MET
