604 
FXUS61 KOKX 070602
AFDOKX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service New York NY
202 AM EDT Mon Jul 7 2025

.SYNOPSIS...
Low pressure passes nearby Monday afternoon into Monday night. 
A cold front approaches Tuesday and moves over the area Tuesday 
night. The front likely stalls nearby the rest of the week 
leading to unsettled conditions, potentially into next weekend.

&&

.NEAR TERM /THROUGH TONIGHT/...
Showers and thunderstorms are expected to develop late this morning 
into the afternoon. The extratropical remnant circulation of Chantal 
will likely track over the Delmarva in the afternoon and then 
offshore Monday evening and night. It should be emphasized that the 
circulation will no longer be tropical, but leftover tropical 
moisture will be present across the Northeast. This moisture will 
act on the sea breeze boundary as well as some mid level energy to 
promote the development of showers and a few thunderstorms. 

Given the tropical origin of the system, PWATs will be quite high 
today, 2-2.35". Model soundings indicate tall and relatively skinny 
CAPE, which is common in tropical air masses. Freezing levels look 
to average around 15 kft as well, supportive of efficient/warm rain 
processes. 1000-2000 J/kg of MUCAPE and SBCAPE lines up this 
afternoon with highest instability expected to be in NE NJ, 
NYC, and the Lower Hudson Valley. Most 00Z CAMs agree on this 
area being the focus of most of the thunderstorms and QPF.

Elsewhere, showers are possible but coverage looks to be lower and 
could just be isolated. No flood watch has been issued at this time, 
but WPC has forecasted a marginal risk of excessive rainfall 
across NE NJ, NYC metro, and the Lower Hudson Valley. 

Basin averaged rainfall amounts around one quarter of an inch 
possible with some local areas receiving 1-2 inches with higher 
amounts. Some locations may see little to no rainfall through Monday 
evening.

Focus for showers shifts to the eastern part of the area Monday 
night with the weak wave of low pressure passing to our south. It 
appears most of the coverage should be offshore, but cannot rule out 
some showers or isolated thunderstorms across portions of Long 
Island or even southeast Connecticut. 

Highs today will be in the low to mid 80s with a few spots into the 
upper 80s in NE NJ. Lows tonight will stay warm in the low to mid 
70s. 

&&

.SHORT TERM /TUESDAY THROUGH WEDNESDAY NIGHT/...
On Tuesday, a cold front slowly approaches from the north and west. 
Ahead of the front, tropical moisture will linger with PW around 2 
inches. Showers and thunderstorms are likely to develop in the 
afternoon and evening along and ahead of the front from the NYC 
metro on NW. This activity will then slide eastward in the evening 
and at night. The main concern from this activity will once again be 
torrential downpours and localized flash flooding. WPC has forecast 
a marginal risk of excessive rainfall throughout on Tuesday. 

An isolated severe thunderstorm is also possible Tuesday 
afternoon/evening. SPC has much of the area in a marginal risk. 
Given tall CAPE profiles in a weak shear, uncapped environment, 
there is potential for an isolated downburst or two. 00Z CAMs have 
showers and thunderstorms developing in clusters. 

The front moves over or just east of the area Tuesday night. The 
front may begin stalling nearby, which could promote continued 
showers/storms for the eastern half of the area.

High pressure to our east over the western Atlantic will lead to 
continued moisture advection into the area. Given the front stalled 
just to our south, this will act as a continuing trigger for showers 
and thunderstorms on Wednesday. Given 2"+ PWATs lingering on 
Wednesday, WPC has carried over another marginal risk for excessive 
rainfall on Wednesday for the potential for more isolated heavy 
downpours. 

There is a great deal of uncertainty surrounding Tuesday's high 
temperatures and it all hinges on cloud cover and rainfall timing. 
Some guidance clear out cloud cover Tuesday morning into early 
afternoon before increasing it again. This extra sunshine would 
allow temperatures to warm into the low 90s. Given high dewpoints, 
heat indices in this scenario could reach 100. However, it seems 
more realistic to have more cloud cover hanging around early on 
Tuesday given an approaching front in a high moisture environment. 
In this scenario, radiational heating would be limited and highs may 
not reach 90 before rainfall begins in the afternoon/evening. Due to 
this uncertainty, a heat advisory has not been issued. 

Highs on Wednesday will be in the 80s across the area, cooler east, 
warmer west. Overnight lows Tue & Wed nights will be in the upper 
60s to middle 70s. 

&&

.LONG TERM /THURSDAY THROUGH SUNDAY/...
The NBM was followed with no changes. 

Key Points:

*  A stalled front south of the area on Thursday will remain in the 
   general vicinity through the end of the week and into the 
   weekend. 

*  Expect a period of unsettled weather with a chance of showers 
   and/or thunderstorms each day.

*  Temperatures should be right around average for this time of
   the year with highs each day in the lower/mid 80s. 

&&

.AVIATION /06Z MONDAY THROUGH FRIDAY/...
High pressure will remain offshore, while weak low pressure passes 
to the south this afternoon tonight. 

VFR to start, however IFR/LIFR cigs should develop early this 
morning. Improvement back to mostly VFR on Monday, however showers 
with a chance of thunderstorms starting at around noontime could 
bring lower flight categories at times. IFR/LIFR conditions are 
expected once again Monday night. 

S-SW mostly around 10 kt at the metro and coastal terminals, and 
light inland. Winds should slowly diminish overnight, then become 
SSE-S daytime Mon either side of 10 kt. Winds become light and 
variable once again Monday night. 

 ...NY Metro (KEWR/KLGA/KJFK/KTEB) TAF Uncertainty... 

AMD possible to adjust timing of lower cigs late tonight into Mon 
morning. 

.OUTLOOK FOR 06Z TUESDAY THROUGH FRIDAY... 

Monday night: MVFR/IFR cigs likely to spread inland from the coast. 

Tuesday: Improvement to VFR by late morning, then afternoon showers 
likely with chance of tstms especially from the NYC metros 
north/west, with flight cat lowering to MVFR or IFR.
Gusty winds also possible in stronger storms. 

Wednesday through Friday: Afternoon and evening showers/tstms 
possible each day, with brief MVFR or IFR conditions. 

Detailed information, including hourly TAF wind component forecasts, 
can be found at: https:/www.weather.gov/zny/n90

&&

.MARINE...
Conditions will remain below SCA levels on the waters through 
Monday. Seas begin building Monday night into Tuesday and may 
approach 5 ft east of Moriches Inlet into Tuesday night from a 
SE swell. Generally weak flow will result in sub-SCA conditions 
on all waters through this week and into the weekend. Ocean seas
however will remain around 4 ft. 

&&

.HYDROLOGY...
Locally torrential downpours are possible late Monday morning into 
Monday evening, especially across NE NJ, NYC metro, and Lower Hudson 
Valley. This activity could produce localized flash flooding and WPC 
has this area in a Marginal risk for excessive rainfall. The risk 
for locally torrential downpours and localized flash flooding 
remains possible on Tuesday and Wednesday for the entire area. 
WPC has maintained a marginal risk for excessive rainfall for 
Tuesday and Wednesday.

&&

.TIDES/COASTAL FLOODING...
The rip current risk for all beaches will be moderate both 
Monday and Tuesday. Surf heights around 4 ft are likely over the
period, but may increase to near 5 ft by Tuesday, especially at
the NYC, Nassau and western Suffolk beaches.

&&

.OKX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CT...Air Quality Alert from 11 AM this morning to 11 PM EDT this 
     evening for CTZ005-009.
NY...None.
NJ...None.
MARINE...None.

&&

$$

SYNOPSIS...BR
NEAR TERM...BR
SHORT TERM...BR
LONG TERM...
AVIATION...BC
MARINE...BR
HYDROLOGY...BR
TIDES/COASTAL FLOODING...
