692 
FXUS61 KOKX 221822
AFDOKX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service New York NY
222 PM EDT Fri Aug 22 2025

.SYNOPSIS...
High pressure builds overhead tonight then offshore Saturday. A
frontal system approaches Sunday evening and moves slowly 
through the area Sunday night into Monday. High pressure then 
gradually builds in for the middle to end of next week. 

&&

.NEAR TERM /THROUGH TONIGHT/...
High pressure will build overhead tonight, providing the region with 
clear skies and dry conditions. Winds continue to diminish this 
evening, becoming light and variable tonight. Low temperatures will 
be in the upper 50s and 60s. 

&&

.SHORT TERM /SATURDAY THROUGH SATURDAY NIGHT/...
Dry weather continues as high pressure remains offshore. As the high 
moves further offshore, a frontal system approaches from the west.
Temperatures on Saturday will be in the lower to middle 80s. 
Saturday night expect lows in the 60s. Lows Saturday night will be 
slightly above normal. Clouds will increase late Saturday night 
ahead of the approaching cold front. 

&&

.LONG TERM /SUNDAY THROUGH FRIDAY/...
Key Points:

* Shower/thunderstorm chances late Sunday into Monday. Mainly dry 
  conditions Tuesday through Friday.

* Near normal temperatures on Sunday and Monday, then a slight 
  cooldown to below normal highs from Tuesday onward.

There has been no significant change to the forecast thinking for 
the extended period, and the global models remain in decent 
agreement. Synoptic-scale ridging pushes east of the area Sunday 
allowing for a deep southwest flow to develop ahead of a deepening 
closed upper low over eastern Canada. This low over eastern Canada 
extends an h5 trough over the eastern 2/3 of the CONUS then remains 
over the east for much of the rest of the extended timeframe. This 
will keep the local area in predominately west/southwest flow aloft 
for much of the week.

At the sfc, a cold front approaches on Sunday into early Monday, 
slowing as it does so, becoming parallel to the mid and upper flow. 
Precipitation chances increase from west to east Sunday afternoon, 
with a slower approach than in previous cycles, and most of the area 
will remain precipitation free until later Sunday. PWATs do increase 
to 1-1.75" ahead of the front, which suggests the possibility of 
heavier rainfall with any deeper convection. Thunder chances have 
decreased a bit, given the later timing of the approaching front, 
with limited instability and better forcing north of the area.
North and west of NYC would see the best chance of thunder late 
Sunday, and thus have constrained thunder chances there for that 
timeframe. By Monday, the front moves through the area providing 
another round of showers and embedded thunder. Given the slow 
movement of the system in general, localized heavy rain may still be 
possible, especially north and west of NYC. NBM probabilities of >2" 
in 24 hours are <10% at this time, however, so not looking at any 
widespread heavy rainfall.

The front pushes offshore by early Tuesday. High pressure then 
builds back in from the Central Plains, for the remainder of the 
period. 

&&

.AVIATION /18Z FRIDAY THROUGH WEDNESDAY/...
High pressure gradually builds from the west, moving overhead 
tonight, then offshore on Saturday. 

VFR through the period. 

late day seabreezes are expected today and then once again on 
Saturday afternoon. Winds overnight become light and variable. 

 ...NY Metro (KEWR/KLGA/KJFK/KTEB) TAF Uncertainty...

Late day S seabreeze likely for JFK/KLGA, and SE for KEWR.

.OUTLOOK FOR 12Z SATURDAY THROUGH TUESDAY...

Saturday: VFR.

Sunday and Monday: Scattered showers Sun PM through Mon PM, isolated 
tstm possible in the aft/eve. MVFR conds possible Sun AM, and Sun 
night into Mon AM.

Tuesday and Wednesday: VFR.

Detailed information, including hourly TAF wind component forecasts, 
can be found at: https:/www.weather.gov/zny/n90

&&

.MARINE...
High pressure builds in from the west as Hurricane Erin moves 
further offshore. 

Small Craft Advisories remain on the ocean waters west of Moriches 
Inlet through midday Saturday, and east of Moriches Inlet through 
the day Saturday, when ocean seas will have fallen below 5 feet, as 
swells subside. Conditions then remain below advisory levels into 
mid next week.

For the non ocean waters conditions remain below advisory 
levels into mid next week.

&&

.HYDROLOGY...
There are no hydrologic concerns through the middle of next
week.

&&

.TIDES/COASTAL FLOODING...
A High Surf Advisory remains in effect for all Atlantic Ocean 
Beaches through today as residual swell from Tropical cyclone Erin 
continues a life threatening surf and rip current threat. A High Rip 
Current Risk goes through early Saturday evening, and may be needed 
into Sunday morning for the Atlantic Ocean beaches as swells 
continue to slowly subside. Please refer to the National Hurricane 
Center for further information on Erin.

Surf has already peaked, and is expected to subside to 5 to 9 ft 
across western beaches and 6 to 10 ft across eastern through the 
morning, and then gradually fall further to 3 to 6 ft for western 
beaches and 4 to 7 ft for eastern beaches towards the late day and 
evening.

Areas of dune erosion and beach flooding are still expected for this 
morning's high tide, but the potential for localized overwashes is 
low as water levels will be lower than previous cycle last evening. 
The threat for dune erosion will therefore not be as widespread and 
more scattered for this evening's high tide, with beach erosion and 
escarpment the primary threat with a west to east sweeping surf. 

The threat for widespread moderate coastal flooding has come to and 
end, with generally minor to localized moderate flooding threat for 
the today and this evening's cycles with coastal flood advisories
and also a coastal flood statement in place. Therefore additional
rounds of minor flooding are likely, particularly for the 
southern bays of LI and NYC, and along the oceanfront.

&&

.OKX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CT...Coastal Flood Advisory from 10 PM this evening to 2 AM EDT 
     Saturday for CTZ009.
NY...Coastal Flood Advisory from 10 PM this evening to 2 AM EDT 
     Saturday for NYZ071.
     Coastal Flood Advisory from 6 PM to 11 PM EDT this evening for 
     NYZ074-075.
     High Risk for Rip Currents through Saturday evening for NYZ075-080-
     081-178-179.
     High Surf Advisory until 8 PM EDT this evening for NYZ075-080-
     081-178-179.
     Coastal Flood Advisory from 6 PM this evening to 2 AM EDT 
     Saturday for NYZ080-081-178-179.
NJ...Coastal Flood Advisory from 6 PM to 11 PM EDT this evening for 
     NJZ006-106-108.
MARINE...Small Craft Advisory until 6 PM EDT Saturday for ANZ350.
     Small Craft Advisory until 2 PM EDT Saturday for ANZ353-355.

&&

$$

SYNOPSIS...BC/DBR
NEAR TERM...BC
SHORT TERM...BC
LONG TERM...DBR
AVIATION...BC
MARINE...BC/DBR/JM
HYDROLOGY...BC/DBR
TIDES/COASTAL FLOODING...JM
