167 
FXUS61 KOKX 021456
AFDOKX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service New York NY
956 AM EST Sun Mar 2 2025

.SYNOPSIS...
High pressure builds in through Monday, moving off the coast by 
Tuesday. Strong low pressure then tracks toward the Great Lakes
and Canada Tuesday night into Wednesday sending a warm front 
north of the area Wednesday morning. A cold front then slowly 
follows late Wednesday into Wednesday night. This system will 
pull slowly away on Thursday, with high pressure sliding to the 
south on Friday. A frontal system will then approach from the 
west on Saturday.

&&

.NEAR TERM /THROUGH TONIGHT/...
Updated for current conditions.

Forecast on track with the main story being unseasonably cold 
conditions for early March. A deep upper level trough will 
continue to move across the northeast through tonight allowing 
high pressure to gradually build in from the west. The 
atmosphere is very dry with surface dew points likely falling to
between 5 below to 5 above this afternoon. NW winds will still 
be gusty into the afternoon, generally 20-25 mph. High 
temperatures will struggle to rise out of the upper 20s inland 
and only to the lower 30s closer to the coast, despite a fully 
day of early March sunshine. 

One last piece of energy within the upper trough will swing
across the area late tonight. A slight increase in clouds may 
occur with this feature, but overall should have very little 
impact on temperatures. Lows still look to fall to just above 10
inland and middle to upper teens most elsewhere. Lows in the 
NYC metro will likely stay around 20 degrees. The gusts will end
this evening, but a light breeze remains possible close to the 
coast through the night as the center of the high pressure 
remains over western PA. Minimum wind chills by day break Monday
will generally be in the single digits for most spots to lower 
teens in the NYC metro.

&&

.SHORT TERM /MONDAY THROUGH TUESDAY NIGHT/...
The upper trough departs offshore Monday allowing heights to
rise aloft. High pressure will dominate at the surface during 
the day and then slide offshore Monday night. Ridging then 
continues to build aloft on Tuesday in response to ahead a 
strong low pressure and closed upper low over the Plains. The 
low pressure will then continue to deepen as it tracks towards 
the Great Lakes Tuesday night, with a warm front beginning to 
lift to the north by early Wednesday.

Cold conditions continue on Monday although temperatures will
begin to moderate somewhat compared to Sunday. Highs will still
be below normal for early March, but range from the lower 30s 
across southeastern CT and eastern LI to the middle and upper 
30s for the rest of the area. Some high clouds may begin to 
stream around the ridge ahead of the aforementioned storm system
Monday night, but are more likely to increase on Tuesday. Lows 
should fall into the lower 20s inland to the middle and upper 
20s elsewhere Monday night. 

Winds shift to the SW-S on Tuesday as the high pressure moves 
offshore. Much milder conditions are anticipated in this regime, 
which is supported by increasing warm advection in the low and 
middle levels. Have sided closer to the NBM 75th percentile, which 
yields highs in the lower 50s for the NYC metro and NE NJ with 
middle to upper 40s elsewhere. Much of Tuesday night will remain 
dry, but precipitation probabilities begin to increase towards
day break Wednesday as the strong storm system begins to move 
closer to the area. Temperatures will be much milder Tuesday 
night and may only fall into the mid to upper 30s inland and 
near 40 at the coast. The warm air aloft will ensure any precip 
that develops before day break to be in the form of rain

&&

.LONG TERM /WEDNESDAY THROUGH SATURDAY/...
Key Points:

* Rainy and mild conditions expected on Wednesday as a frontal
  system impacts the area, tapering off to showery conditions 
  on Thursday. 

* Brisk and more seasonable conditions return on Friday. 

Global model guidance still consistent on the idea of strong low
pressure moving NE across the upper Great Lakes on Wed and 
into Ontario and Quebec Wed night, with a warm frontal passage 
Wed AM, moderate to locally heavy warm conveyor belt rainfall 
Wed into Wed evening via large scale ascent/WAA/moisture 
transport in the warm sector on a strong southerly LLJ with PW 
up to 1.25 inches, then a cold frontal passage late Wed night. 
Signals still present for locally heavy rainfall via orographic 
lift inland and also on the nose of the LLJ, also elevated 
CAPE/isolated thunder Wed night, yielding avg QPF of about 
1.0-1.25 inches, and locally over 1.5 inches. With the GFS 
showing an LLJ as strong as 75-80 kt, also expect strong S winds
gusting to at least 40 mph especially for NYC metro and the 
coast Wed afternoon/evening, even with a sfc-based inversion. 
Temps will be on the mild side, with highs in the 50s and 
possibly nearing 60 in the urban corridor of NE NJ. 

Associated cold front passes through late Wed night into Thu
morning, with lingering showers possible through the day on 
Thu, especially over S CT and Long Island, as the parent upper 
trough passes through. Brisk and colder conditions expected for 
Thu night/Fri as a secondary low develops E of New England ad 
increases the sfc pressure gradient, with temps returning to 
near or slightly below normal. 

After the upper trough associated with the mid week system pulls 
away from the area, the flow aloft becomes zonal over the 
eastern US. An embedded shortwave trough in the flow should send
a fast- moving low eastward from the mid Mississippi Valley Fri
night to the Mid Atlantic coast by Sat night. Have only 20-30 
PoP attm for some light snow or rain with this system, with 
temps still near seasonable levels.

&&

.AVIATION /15Z SUNDAY THROUGH THURSDAY/...
VFR with NW winds at 14-18 kt with gusts around or just over 25
kt as high pressure builds from the west. Winds veer right of 
310 magnetic this evening with still some gusts up to 20 kt this
evening, then gusts abate and speeds settle down to under 10 kt
by late evening. 

 ...NY Metro (KEWR/KLGA/KJFK/KTEB) TAF Uncertainty...

No unscheduled AMD expected. 

.OUTLOOK FOR 12Z MONDAY THROUGH THURSDAY...

Monday: VFR. 

Tuesday: VFR. SW winds G15-20kt in the afternoon. 

Tuesday night: Chance of rain showers late mainly NW of the NYC 
metro terminals, with MVFR possible. S winds G15-20 kt still 
possible at the coastal terminals. 

Wednesday: Rain with IFR/LIFR cond and LLWS expected. S winds G20-
25kt in the morning, increasing to G30-35kt in the 
afternoon/evening. 

Thursday: Chance of rain showers with MVFR cond possible. W winds 
G20kt in the afternoon, becoming NW G25kt at night. 

Detailed information, including hourly TAF wind component
forecasts, can be found at: https:/www.weather.gov/zny/n90

&&

.MARINE...
Gusty winds to around 25 kt will continue across New York
Harbor, and the South Shore Bays, into early afternoon, and 
extended the SCA. Also, for the far eastern Long Island Sound, 
and the eastern Long Island bays gusts will likely remain near 
25 kt into late afternoon, and also extended the advisory until 
400 PM EST.

Winds will remain at SCA levels into the afternoon on the ocean
waters. Ocean seas are likely to linger close to 5 ft. The
advisory remains in effect until 600 PM EST.

With the gusty winds light freezing spray is expected into the 
afternoon. Conditions will then be below SCA levels tonight 
through Monday night with high pressure building over the 
waters. The high pressure moves offshore allowing for a 
strengthening S flow Tuesday into Tuesday night. Marginal SCA 
conditions are possible on the ocean late Tuesday and Tuesday 
night.

S flow ramps up quickly on Wed, with SCA cond on the ocean in 
the morning and the non ocean waters by afternoon, with gusts at
least 25-30 kt continuing into Wed night. Meanwhile ocean seas 
should build to 4-6 ft by midday, 7-10 ft by evening, and 
peaking at 10-13 ft by midnight Wed night. Potential for S gale 
force gusts 35- 40 kt Wed afternoon/evening is increasing, 
especially for the ocean waters. 

Winds should ramp down daytime Thu after a cold frontal passage,
but hazardous seas of 8-12 ft should continue on the ocean, 
lowering only slightly to 7-10 ft Thu afternoon/night. Then as 
low pressure to the east intensifies, NW flow gusting to 25-30 
kt should return to all waters Thu night.

&&

.HYDROLOGY...
A frontal system Wednesday into Thursday is should produce QPF
of 1.00 to 1.25 inches, with localized totals over 1.5 inches 
possible. The heavier rain is expected Wed afternoon/evening, 
with rainfall rates precluding anything other than nuisance 
minor flooding.

&&

.OKX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CT...None.
NY...None.
NJ...None.
MARINE...Small Craft Advisory until 4 PM EST this afternoon for ANZ332-
     340.
     Small Craft Advisory until 1 PM EST this afternoon for ANZ338-
     345.
     Small Craft Advisory until 6 PM EST this evening for ANZ350-
     353-355.

&&

$$

SYNOPSIS...BG/DS
NEAR TERM...DS/MET
SHORT TERM...DS
LONG TERM...BG
AVIATION...
MARINE...BG/DS/MET
HYDROLOGY...BG/DS
