651 
FXUS61 KOKX 290649
AFDOKX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service New York NY
249 AM EDT Sun Jun 29 2025

.SYNOPSIS...
An approaching cold front and pre-frontal trough will move across
the area overnight with weak high pressure building from Sunday
into Monday. High pressure will then give way to a warm frontal
passage Monday night, followed by a cold frontal passage late 
Tuesday into Tuesday night. Weak high pressure briefly takes 
control on Wednesday into Thursday morning. A weak cold front 
swings through late Thursday into Thursday night, followed by 
high pressure late in the week into the first part of next 
weekend.

&&

.NEAR TERM /UNTIL 6 AM THIS MORNING/...
Partly to mostly cloudy for the remainder of the night, but the area
will also reside in a very muggy warm sector tonight with dew 
points getting into the lower 70s before the passage of a cold 
front. Lows mostly in the 70s, but a few spots in the city might
not fall below 80.

&&

.SHORT TERM /6 AM THIS MORNING THROUGH 6 PM MONDAY/...
Cold front passes to the south in the morning with weak high
pressure building in from the northwest into Monday. While a
somewhat drier airmass filters into the region, this will be 
nothing more than a change in airmass. This will allow highs 
both Sunday and Monday to top out in the mid 80s to lower 90s. 
The warmest readings will be away from the immediate south shore
and twin forks of LI. Lows Sunday night will be a bit cooler 
with the drier airmass, but still several degrees above normal. 
Expect mostly clear skies during this time with the next chance
of rain toward Monday evening as a warm front approaches from 
the southwest. Max heat indices during this time will get into 
the lower 90s for portions of the area. Not expecting any heat 
headlines during this time. NBM deterministic temperatures were 
used and generally are at or just below the 25th percentile. 
They are close to MOS if not a bit warmer. See no reason to 
deviate at this time to higher values.

&&

.LONG TERM /MONDAY NIGHT THROUGH SATURDAY/...
* Seasonably warm and humid through Thursday

* Less humid towards the 4th of July

A typical summer air mass will be in places during the period. A 
series of cold fronts are forecast to swing through, one late 
Tuesday into Tuesday night and another cold front Thursday into 
Thursday night.

The first of these cold fronts will bring the region a chance of 
showers and thunderstorms late Tuesday and Tuesday evening. Due to 
large scale trough swinging through likely PoPs remain for a good 
portion of the region late Tuesday. Continued mention of chance 
thunder due to forecast height falls and good agreement on trough 
and frontal timing. Convective feedback in the models is making QPF 
a challenge to forecast; the 06 GFS had close to 2" of QPF on the 
north shore of Long Island, while the 12Z GFS had just a few 
hundredths of an inch from 18Z Tue to 00Z Wed. WPC guidance looked 
the best overall for QPF during this time frame. 

Should be in between frontal boundaries and any shortwave features 
on Wednesday into Thursday morning with weak high pressure in place 
and mainly dry conditions expected for this time period.

Another cold front approaches Thursday, but at this time NWP is not 
indicating as much dynamics and frontal forcing with this boundary. 
It appears that this cold front will move through mainly dry for 
much of the forecast area, with the best chances for any showers or 
thunderstorms across the Lower Hudson Valley (low end chance POPs) 
and therefore the front serves mainly to lower humidity levels late 
in the week towards the 4th of July holiday with only a slight 
chance of showers thunderstorms late Thursday and Thursday evening.

Conditions are expected to remain mainly dry Friday into the first 
half of next weekend with high pressure in control.

&&

.AVIATION /06Z SUNDAY THROUGH THURSDAY/...
A cold front moves south of the region overnight into Sunday morning.

MVFR to LIFR possible with low clouds and fog overnight into early 
Sunday morning, mainly east of NYC terminals as well as potentially 
KHPN. Otherwise VFR should prevail for the city and most western 
terminals. Any low clouds and patchy fog for the more eastern 
terminals along with KHPN is expected to dissipate Sunday morning 
with VFR conditions thereafter.

Winds will be light and variable in direction at times tonight into 
early Sunday morning. A more westerly wind direction develops 
towards and after 12z. The westerly flow backs to a more southerly 
flow for coastal terminals Sunday afternoon with the sea breeze 
developing. Western and more inland terminals should remain mostly W 
and WNW.

     NY Metro (KEWR/KLGA/KJFK/KTEB) TAF Uncertainty...

Low confidence on the MVFR fog developing overnight into early 
Sunday morning.

Amendments may be needed for wind direction changes with sea
breeze for KJFK on Sunday.

.OUTLOOK FOR 06Z MONDAY THROUGH THURSDAY... 

Sunday night: VFR.

Monday: VFR during the day. A chance of showers and thunderstorms at 
night. MVFR or lower possible at night.

Tuesday: Showers with a chance of thunderstorms with MVFR or lower 
possible, especially afternoon and evening. SW wind gusts 15-20 kt 
day into early eve.

Wednesday: VFR.

Thursday: Mainly VFR, but MVFR possible afternoon into early eve 
showers and thunderstorms possible for NYC terminals and north and 
west.

Detailed information, including hourly TAF wind component forecasts,
can be found at: https:/www.weather.gov/zny/n90

&&

.MARINE...
Marine dense fog advisory issued for Moriches to Montauk ocean
zone with web cameras indicating the presence of dense fog early
on this evening. This dense fog advisory continues until 8AM EDT
Sunday and according to HRRR, the dense fog may last a little
longer than forecast. Have a marine weather statement for
patches of dense fog within the eastern parts of the South Shore
Bays this evening. Dense fog will reduce visibilities to less
than 1 NM.

Sub-SCA conditions are expected through Monday with weak high
pressure influencing the waters.

Wind gusts and waves should start to approach SCA conditions for the 
central and eastern ocean waters Tuesday afternoon, with small craft 
conditions likely Tuesday night into early Wednesday in response to 
a cold front. Thereafter, sub-SCA conditions return into mid and 
late week.

&&

.HYDROLOGY...
No hydrologic concerns outside of minor nuisance, poor drainage
flooding issues with any thunderstorms.

&&

.TIDES/COASTAL FLOODING...
There is a moderate risk of rip current development across the ocean 
beaches Sunday and Monday.

&&

.OKX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CT...None.
NY...None.
NJ...None.
MARINE...Dense Fog Advisory until 8 AM EDT this morning for ANZ350.

&&

$$

SYNOPSIS...JP/DW
NEAR TERM...JC/JM/JP
SHORT TERM...DW
LONG TERM...JP
AVIATION...JE
MARINE...JP/DW
HYDROLOGY...JP/DW
TIDES/COASTAL FLOODING...
