985 
FXUS61 KOKX 052058
AFDOKX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service New York NY
358 PM EST Wed Mar 5 2025

.SYNOPSIS...
A warm front lift north of the area tonight, followed quickly by a 
cold front as low pressure over the Great Lakes lifts north into 
southern Ontario and Quebec into Thursday night with high pressure 
building in behind it. The low slowly departs to the northeast through Friday. A weak 
frontal system then passes nearby Friday night into Saturday 
morning. High pressure will then be in control for the rest of the 
weekend and into the first half of next week.
 
&&

.NEAR TERM /UNTIL 6 AM THURSDAY MORNING/...
Moderate to briefly heavy rain expected this evening and overnight 
tonight as a warm front lifts north of the region followed quickly 
by associated cold front. This is in association with a strong 
surface low over the Great Lakes region that will lift north into 
southern Ontario and Quebec tonight into Thursday. Aloft, an upper 
low weakens into a trough as it slowly moves east from the Great 
Lakes region. 

CAMs are in generally good agreement with timing of the line of 
moderate to briefly heavy showers from west to east. Thunder looks 
less likely and limited to northeast NJ, NYC, and Long Island. SPC 
HREF shows no SBCAPE or MUCAPE across the forecast area, though 
there BUFKIT soundings continue to so some instability aloft which 
could spark a thunderstorm, but again, limited to the aforementioned 
areas. 

As previously mentioned, moderate to briefly heavy rain will move 
through thanks to a strong southerly flow near and just 
above the surface (50-60 kt jet between 950 and 900 mb). In fact, 
winds will gust close to 40 mph, with isolated gusts between 45 an 
50 mph. However, winds across the area are expected to remain below 
Wind Advisory criteria tonight. 

Heaviest of the rain looks to fall across northeast NJ and the Lower 
Hudson Valley, over the higher terrain and orographic lifting 
bringing this area more in the way of rain. Less rain for eastern 
areas as the line is expected to weaken overnight. 

&&

.SHORT TERM /6 AM THURSDAY MORNING THROUGH THURSDAY NIGHT/...
The surface low continues to lift slowly north into Quebec on 
Thursday and into Thursday night as the cold front pushes farther 
offshore. Mid level short wave moves through Thursday morning, 
pushing east by the afternoon. This could provide enough lift and 
instability for some isolated showers to move through, but much of 
the area should remain dry for the day Thursday.

Cold advection looks to hold off until Thursday night, as winds 
increase once again, with the low in Canada slowly strengthening and 
the high to the west building in, providing a decent pressure 
gradient. However, winds look to be a bit weaker than previous 
forecast for Thursday night. Current forecast has northwest winds 
gusting to around 30 mph. Winds may be a bit too low, and there 
remains a possibility for a Wind Advisory for Thursday night, 
however, it looks less likely now.

Above normal temperatures are expected Thursday, with highs 
in the 50s for much of the region.

&&

.LONG TERM /FRIDAY THROUGH WEDNESDAY/...
**HIGH IMPACT AVIATION WEATHER INTO TONIGHT**

Low pressure tracks through the Great Lakes through this evening, 
then into southeastern Canada tonight into Thursday, sending a 
frontal system through the area.

VFR until a line of showers, moderate to heavy at times, moves into 
the terminals. Conditions quickly lower to MVFR, and with a few 
embedded heavier showers early this evening IFR is likely. The 
chances for thunderstorms remains low and have not included in the 
forecast. Timing of the heavier showers remains a little uncertain 
and may be off +/- an hour or two. Showers are possible into late 
tonight/toward Thursday morning, until a cold frontal passage.

With a strong low level jet ahead of the low LLWS remains at all the 
terminals into tonight, 05Z/06Z west and 09Z east. Strong southerly 
winds and gusts continue into this evening. However, there is some 
uncertainty as to how strong gusts will be with a low level 
inversion in place, limiting mixing of the higher winds aloft. As 
the pre frontal trough moves into the area late tonight winds 
diminish and gust end before returning Thursday morning in a 
westerly flow behind the cold front.


 ...NY Metro (KEWR/KLGA/KJFK/KTEB) TAF Uncertainty...

Amendments likely through late tonight with changing of flight 
categories and intensity of precipitation.

.OUTLOOK FOR 18Z THURSDAY THROUGH MONDAY...

Thursday afternoon: VFR. WNW winds 15-20 kt G25-30 kt. A few gusts 
of 35 to 40 kt possible late afternoon and at night. 

Friday: VFR. W winds G25-35 kt.

Saturday: VFR with W winds G15-20 kt possible.

Sunday - Monday: VFR.

Detailed information, including hourly TAF wind component forecasts, 
can be found at: https:/www.weather.gov/zny/n90

&&

.MARINE...
A southerly flow will strengthen today and peak this evening 
and overnight. A Gale Warning remains in effect on the ocean 
waters, NY Harbor and South Shore Bays. SCA are in effect 
elsewhere. Peak wind gusts tonight over the Gale Warning areas 
will be around 40 knots. On the SCA areas, peak gusts will be 
just below gale criteria. There is potential for some waters to
be upgraded to a Gale Warning later today depending on 
observations and new model guidance. With the strong winds, seas
over the ocean peak at 8 to 14 feet, with waves on the LI Sound
reaching 3-5 feet. Winds diminish late tonight and any gales
should be converted to SCAs as winds subside.

There will be a lull in the action on Thursday, when winds fall 
below SCA criteria, but waves remain at 5 to 12 ft. By Thursday
night, a northwest flow picks up and we likely see a return on 
gale conditions. The gale watch for later on in the forecast 
period has been extended on all waters through Friday as 
guidance has trended stronger with winds. 

Winds will subside through Friday night with conditions 
falling below advisory thresholds on the non-ocean waters. As for 
the ocean waters, most of Friday night through Saturday night could 
see marginal advisory conditions. Sunday and Monday otherwise 
feature sub-advisory conditions. 



&&

.HYDROLOGY...
A frontal system impacting the region today and tonight will likely 
bring a total of 0.5 to 1.5 inches of rain, with locally higher
amounts possible. The higher totals are expected inland and
across the higher elevation. Rainfall rates could approach 0.50 
inch per hour in spots at the time of heaviest rainfall, which 
could lead to nuisance urban and poor drainage flooding.

No hydrological impacts are expected Thursday through early next 
week.

&&

.TIDES/COASTAL FLOODING...
Astronomical tides will remain low through the end of the week. 
Intensifying southerly flow ahead of a strong storm system will 
increase tide levels during tonight night/early Thursday 
morning high tide. Surge of 1.5 to 3 ft is needed to reach minor
flooding benchmarks. The strongest winds may actually occur 
before high tide, limiting the surge somewhat during high tide. 
Most locations should remain at or below action stage. However, 
some of the most vulnerable locations across the south shore 
back bays and western Sound could touch minor flooding 
benchmarks. 

Large breaking waves 8-10 ft are forecast late Wednesday into
Wednesday night along the oceanfront, with beach flooding and
erosion possible.

&&

.OKX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CT...None.
NY...None.
NJ...None.
MARINE...Small Craft Advisory until 4 AM EST Thursday for ANZ331-332-
     335-340.
     Gale Watch from Thursday evening through Friday afternoon for 
     ANZ331-332-335-338-340-345-350-353-355.
     Gale Warning until 10 PM EST this evening for ANZ338.
     Gale Warning until 4 AM EST Thursday for ANZ345-350-353-355.

&&

$$

SYNOPSIS...JC/JP
NEAR TERM...JP
SHORT TERM...JP
LONG TERM...JC
AVIATION...MET
MARINE...JC/JP
HYDROLOGY...JC/JP
TIDES/COASTAL FLOODING...
