675 
FXUS61 KOKX 142041
AFDOKX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service New York NY
341 PM EST Tue Jan 14 2025

.SYNOPSIS...
High pressure builds west of the region through Wednesday. An 
approaching frontal system dissipates as it approaches from the 
west on Thursday. High pressure then briefly builds into the 
area Friday before a cold front moves through this weekend. A 
series of frontal waves may pass near or south and east of the 
area early next week.

&&

.NEAR TERM /UNTIL 6 AM WEDNESDAY MORNING/...
Windy and cold tngt. With the low and mid lvl flow just N of W, it 
seems unlikely that lake moisture will spill into the cwa early this 
eve. However, with the upr trof passing a bit later, did maintain 
the mention of chc flurries despite the relatively high cloud bases 
around 4000 ft. Deep subsidence aft 4-6Z with some decreasing clouds 
overnight as a result. Stuck close to the NBM for temps with the 
winds keeping things mixed. 

Wind chills in the single digits most areas overnight.

&&

.SHORT TERM /6 AM WEDNESDAY MORNING THROUGH WEDNESDAY NIGHT/...
Sct-bkn flat cu is likely to develop on Wed with steep llvl lapse 
rates. With more of a nwly flow, cannot completely rule out as stray 
flurry making it down to the cwa, however, the chances are too low 
attm to include in the fcst. 

Continued windy with h85 around 30kt. This should produce gusts 
around 25 mph, so bumped up the gust factor in the grids to account 
for this. Otherwise, NBM temps seemed reasonable so were used for 
highs.

The cycle repeats for Wed ngt with lessening clouds again. Winds 
will decrease, particularly late, as the weakening high ridges into 
the cwa. Went with the NBM and typical local adjustments for lows, 
which produces teens most areas. Wind chills in  the single digits 
and teens.

&&

.LONG TERM /THURSDAY THROUGH TUESDAY/...
No significant changes to forecast thinking late this week into next.
The last in a series of shortwaves will drop across the Northeast 
Thursday with the associated frontal system dissipating to the west 
of the forecast area. Expect an increase in cloud cover during the 
afternoon and evening hours with perhaps a chance of flurries or a 
brief snow shower, otherwise dry conditions persist. The trough then 
lifts out into Friday morning with brief upper ridging and surface 
high pressure building across the area, allowing a brief warm up 
thru Saturday with 40s returning to coastal locales in the afternoon.

Meanwhile, Pacific energy that briefly breaks down the ridge across 
western Canada and the PNW, along with northern branch energy 
descending south across central Canada, will carve out a longwave 
trough encompassing much of the Lower 48 into early next week. 
Guidance is in good agreement that progressive cold front along the 
leading edge of the trough tracks across the area Saturday 
afternoon/night. With milder air in place, rain showers likely in a 
strengthening deep-layered southerly flow. 

A trailing wave along the arctic boundary may then attempt deepen as 
it slips off the Southeast coast Sunday into Sunday night, and it's 
not out of the question the region is grazed by the northern 
periphery of the moisture axis. Global ensemble systems keep this 
system weak however, and any associated QPF locally would be light.
Lots of solutions at thereafter into next week, though the 
underlying theme will be the invading arctic air, perhaps the 
coldest so far this season, settling in through at least mid next 
week.

&&

.AVIATION /21Z TUESDAY THROUGH SUNDAY/...
Persistent pattern remains with low pressure to the north and east 
and high pressure to the south and west through the TAF period. 

Gusty WNW-NW winds amd VFR conditions expected through the TAF 
period.

Winds will be generally direction 290-310 through the TAF period 
with sustained wind speeds of near 15-20 kt and gusts near 25-30 kt. 

Highest of winds expected into early evening and again late 
Wednesday morning into Wednesday afternoon with more of a lull in 
the winds for mid evening into overnight.

 ...NY Metro (KEWR/KLGA/KJFK/KTEB) TAF Uncertainty... 

Wind direction could fluctuate between 300 and 320 degrees magnetic 
into early this evening.

Peak gusts 3-5 kts higher than gusts in TAF are possible during the 
TAF period.

Timing of gusts closer to 30 kt and gusts closer to 25 kt could be a 
few hours off from TAF.

.OUTLOOK FOR 18Z WEDNESDAY THROUGH SUNDAY...

Wednesday afternoon-Wednesday night: VFR. NW wind gusts initially 
near 25 kt eventually lower closer to 20 kt late day and then 
eventually diminish at night.

Thursday-Friday: Mainly VFR.

Saturday: MVFR or lower at times with rain likely, possible snow at 
night. SW wind gusts 15-20 kt during the day.

Sunday: Chance for MVFR or lower at times with possible rain/snow.

Detailed information, including hourly TAF wind component forecasts, 
can be found at: https:/www.weather.gov/zny/n90

&&

.MARINE...
Winds thru Wed with winds diminishing Wed ngt. A SCA is in effect 
for all waters thru the day on Wed, and might need to be extended 
into the eve on the ocean if seas remain aoa 5 ft. In addition, some 
lgt freezing spray remains possible thru Wed ngt with a colder 
airmass building in. 

Expect sub-SCA conditions as a frontal system dissipates to the west 
on Thursday and high pressure builds over the area on Friday. A 
strong frontal system moving into the area will be preceded by a 
strengthening S/SW flow that could lead to 25 kt gusts Saturday. 
Ocean seas may build toward 5 ft by Sunday.

&&

.HYDROLOGY...
No significant hydrologic impacts expected into early next week.

&&

.OKX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CT...None.
NY...None.
NJ...None.
MARINE...Small Craft Advisory until 6 PM EST Wednesday for ANZ331-332-
     335-338-340-345-350-353-355.

&&

$$

SYNOPSIS...JMC/DR
NEAR TERM...JMC
SHORT TERM...JMC
LONG TERM...DR
AVIATION...JM
MARINE...JMC/DR
HYDROLOGY...JMC/DR
