431 
FXUS61 KOKX 220006
AFDOKX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service New York NY
806 PM EDT Mon Jul 21 2025

.SYNOPSIS...
High pressure builds through Tuesday, before moving east and 
eventually just offshore later mid week. High pressure should remain 
in control through early Friday. A cold front moves through late 
Friday with another frontal system possibly impacting the area for 
the weekend.

&&

.NEAR TERM /THROUGH TUESDAY/...
High pressure across Southern Canada will continue to build down 
tonight and into Tuesday. With synoptic scale sinking motion 
attempting to take control, the period should remain predominantly 
dry. The only thing of note is a weak low pressure / inverted trough 
feature indicated by the higher res guidance just south of Long 
Island and off the Southern New Jersey coast. The reflectivity 
forecast this evening into tonight hints at the low possibility of a 
few showers. Other than some shallow moisture or relatively higher 
RH in the lower levels, forecast soundings appear quite dry above 
the lower levels. With the lack of depth of any moisture will 
anticipate that it stays dry across the region with any shower or 
sprinkle activity likely remaining south and offshore. Also mid and 
upper level heights begin to slowly rise.

Therefore the theme is for dry and cooler weather as the Canadian 
airmass strengthens its grip on the region. Dew point readings by 
tonight should generally fall into the 50s. Temperatures in the far 
northern and northwestern interior spots may get as low as the lower 
50s. Thus it will be much more comfortable with the lower humidity 
with a light N to NE wind. On Tuesday with high pressure getting 
nearby expect light winds again with temperatures cooler in most 
spots, and a few degrees below normal. Most afternoon max 
temperatures will get into the upper 70s and lower 80s with mainly 
sunny day.

&&

.SHORT TERM /TUESDAY NIGHT THROUGH WEDNESDAY/...
Clear skies and another comfortable night for Tuesday night, 
although not quite as cool in the outlying locations as the previous 
night. Most lows will be in the 60s, with some upper half of the 50s 
in the northern and northwestern interior locations with light to 
calm winds.

By Wednesday the air mass begins to undergo some modification as 500 
mb heights build to around 590 dm with 1000-500mb thicknesses 
beginning to inch up. Also, later in the day a light return flow 
attempts to get initiated as the region begins to get on the back 
side of high pressure which gets further east. Therefore dew point 
readings begin to inch up some and get back into the lower 60s. 
Temperatures will also get back to normal levels with mainly middle 
and upper 80s for day time maxes, with a few spots in urban NE NJ 
possibly reaching 90.

&&

.LONG TERM /WEDNESDAY NIGHT THROUGH MONDAY/...
No significant changes to the long term forecast so the NBM was 
generally followed.

Key Messages:

 * Dry through Thursday night. 

 * Showers & thunderstorms possible with cold front Fri/Fri night 
then again from the front stalling to the south on the weekend.

 * Temps climb Thursday. Heat index may exceed 100 by Friday for 
much of the area.

An upper level ridge flattens Thursday into Thursday night. A series 
of midlevel shortwaves then pass Friday into the weekend.

High pressure shifts offshore into Thursday. A low passing into east 
Quebec Friday moves into the North Atlantic Friday night into 
Saturday. This low brings through a cold front late Friday into 
Friday night. The cold front then stalls south of the area into 
Saturday. This will bring the chance for showers and thunderstorms, 
particularly in the afternoons and early evenings Friday through 
Sunday.

Temperatures will warm Thursday and Friday in response to the high 
moving east and higher heights aloft. Heat index values may exceed 
95 on Thursday for parts of the area and even near 100 in select 
locations, then exceed 100 for large portions of the area on Friday 
with some spots possibly exceeding 105. This means we should see 
solid heat advisory criteria on Friday with heat warning criteria 
possibly being met in some areas. The heat, while lower, will still 
be strong into Saturday with heat index values of 95-100 expected. 
Temperatures lower a bit more on Sunday with highs in the middle to 
upper 80s.

&&

.AVIATION /00Z TUESDAY THROUGH SATURDAY/...
High pressure builds in from the northwest through tonight, and
remains over the region Tuesday.

VFR through the forecast period. 

Winds N/NW, around 10 kt or less. Any leftover gusts will
gradually diminish through around 02z. Winds become NE 
overnight then more easterly/southeasterly on Tuesday around 10
kt or less.

 ...NY Metro (KEWR/KLGA/KJFK/KTEB) TAF Uncertainty...

Occasional gusts up to 20 kt possible through 02z. 

.OUTLOOK FOR 00Z WEDNESDAY THROUGH SATURDAY... 

Tuesday night through Wednesday: VFR.

Thursday: VFR. south winds G20-25kt, highest at the coast.

Friday: VFR likely through morning, possibly followed by periods of 
sub VFR in showers and thunderstorms for the afternoon and evening.

Saturday: VFR with afternoon thunderstorms. 

Detailed information, including hourly TAF wind component forecasts, 
can be found at: https:/www.weather.gov/zny/n90

&&

.MARINE...
With a decreasing pressure gradient with building high pressure look 
for tranquil conditions across the coastal waters tonight into 
Tuesday. Ocean seas will mainly range from 1 to 3 ft through 
Wednesday. Winds may approach SCA gusts on waters both late 
Thursday and then again late Friday with the approach of a cold 
front.

&&

.HYDROLOGY...
There are no hydrologic concerns.

&&

.TIDES/COASTAL FLOODING...
The low rip current risk continues for all ocean beaches Tuesday and 
Wednesday. With that said, with a large tidal range due to an 
approaching new moon, rip development could be moderate a couple of 
hours either side of low tide. Additionally, if an easterly flow is 
stronger than forecast on Tuesday and wave heights trend higher, a 
moderate may be needed.

In addition, there is a chance that water levels come close or 
actually touch minor flood thresholds across the most vulnerable 
southern and eastern NYC/LI bays, and potentially some W LI sound 
locations over the next few days. However, by judging the most 
recent NYHOPS / Stevens higher high tide bias current thinking leans 
towards just falling short of minor coastal flood benchmarks. Thus 
have held off on any coastal flood statements for the time being.

&&

.OKX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CT...None.
NY...None.
NJ...None.
MARINE...None.

&&

$$

SYNOPSIS...JE/MW
NEAR TERM...JE
SHORT TERM...JE
LONG TERM...MW
AVIATION...BC
MARINE...JE/MW
HYDROLOGY...JE/MW
TIDES/COASTAL FLOODING...
