331 
FXUS61 KOKX 311307
AFDOKX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service New York NY
807 AM EST Fri Jan 31 2025

.SYNOPSIS...
An approaching frontal system will impact the area through 
tonight. Strong high pressure will then build down from Ontario 
and the upper Great Lakes into New York and New England on 
Saturday, then pass east of New England on Sunday. Low pressure 
approaching from south central Canada Sunday night will then 
move into Southeast Canada Monday into Monday night, followed by
high pressure through early Wednesday. This high will then 
move offshore, with another frontal system eventually moving in
toward the end of the week.

&&

.NEAR TERM /THROUGH TONIGHT/...
Initial band of precip has weakened and moved north into nrn
Orange/Putnam counties, while another rain band rides north into
the NYC metro area. Temps across New Haven had warmed above
freezing so the winter wx advy there has been cancelled.
Continued the advy for other areas even though precip has ended
to account for any residual slippery conditions, with temps
mostly still at or just below freezing. 

Steadier rain should return this afternoon and continue into 
tonight as a warm front nears Long Island and low pressure to 
the west moves over the area. High temps should reach the upper 
30s/lower 40s. 

Precipitation gradually tapers off tonight as the low departs. 
As precip ends, there may be just enough cold air for some light
snowflakes to fall across the interior, with little to no
accumulation expected. Temps tonight fall into the upper 20s 
and 30s, so some icy spots are possible, mainly inland and
especially on untreated surfaces.

&&

.SHORT TERM /SATURDAY THROUGH SUNDAY/...
A fast quasi-zonal flow across the lower 48 develops in the 
wake of the departing system this weekend. Mid level confluence
over Ontario and the upper Great Lakes will support strong sfc 
high pressure moving quickly across NY and New England on Sat,
passing offshore on Sunday. 

Sat will be only slightly colder than today, with highs in the 
30s to near 40, then colder wx expected for Sat night, with lows
from the single digits well inland to the lower 20s in NYC.

As the high moves offshore on Sunday, a weak upper trough will
approach from the northern Plains. A leading warm front could
bring some light snow to the interior in the afternoon. 
High temps on Sunday range from the upper 20s to mid 30s.

&&

.LONG TERM /SUNDAY NIGHT THROUGH THURSDAY/...
Jet stream overall remains mainly zonal through the period
across the northern US. This same nearly zonal pattern is 
evident in the mid levels also.

At the surface, a warm front associated with an approaching low 
Sunday night will have much of its energy north of the region. 
However, enough vertical forcing is forecast to have some 
precipitation briefly Sunday night into early Monday. 

This could very well bring a light snow, under an inch, to
mostly interior locations while the coast may have very brief 
snow without much of any accumulation as more rain is expected 
towards the coast. A warm front will be moving across with 
slowly rising temperatures expected late at night. Temperatures 
trend from upper 20s interior to mid 30s along coast for early 
evening to lower 30s interior and upper 30s to near 40 along 
coast overnight.

Mainly dry conditions thereafter for the rest of Monday with an 
associated cold front moving across Monday night. Mostly cloudy 
conditions will continue. High pressure will then build in for 
Tuesday into early Wednesday. This will help maintain dry 
conditions and allow for clouds to decrease.

However, clouds and eventually precipitation are expected to
return for mid to late week as another frontal system 
approaches from the west. High pressure moves offshore Wednesday
and an associated warm front slowly moves in. The warm front is
forecast to move across Thursday with an associated cold front 
then approaching for Thursday. This is expected to move across 
late Thursday night into Friday.

Precipitation chances are forecast Wednesday through Thursday
night. Ambient airmass expected to be cold enough for mostly 
snow early Wednesday but then changing more to rain along the 
coast in the afternoon and into the night as well. Snow remains 
across the interior. Warm sector for the local area Thursday so 
pretty much all rain chances in the forecast on Thursday. Rain 
chances continue into Thursday night.

Overall, the long term forecast period does not show much
tightness of the pressure gradient so winds are not expected 
to get strong. All forecast wind gusts stay under 30 mph. 
Temperatures do not exhibit too much of a vast range. Max 
temperature ranges from the mid 30s to lower 50s accounting for 
all days in the long term. Only one day where some interior 
spots may just reach near freezing for the high temperatures and
that day is Wednesday. Min temperatures not too much of range 
either in the long term. They range from lower 20s to upper 30s.

&&

.AVIATION /13Z FRIDAY THROUGH TUESDAY/...
Low pressure approaches from the west through today with a warm
front nearing the coast. A cold front moves through tonight.

Expecting lowering conditions to MVFR and then IFR with
localized LIFR as precipitation enters and spreads across the 
area. Mainly rain is expected, with a period of light freezing 
rain at KSWF this morning. All terminals, including KSWF, 
expected to have plain rain after 15-16Z. 

Winds during much of the TAF period will be S to SW under 10
kts. Some terminals outside of NYC will experience light winds
at or less than 5 kts with variable direction. There is some
LLWS with SW winds of 40 kt at 2kft this morning. This will be 
possible again tonight as well.

Late tonight, KSWF will have a period of rain and snow mix
before all precipitation eventually tapers off from west to 
east. Winds eventually become more NW and increase to near 10 
kts.

 ...NY Metro (KEWR/KLGA/KJFK/KTEB) TAF Uncertainty...

Amendments likely for timing of MVFR, IFR, and possibly LIFR. 

.OUTLOOK FOR 09Z SATURDAY THROUGH TUESDAY...

Saturday: Becoming VFR in the morning for all terminals. NW 
winds 10 to 15 kts with gusts near 20 to 25 kts. Some peak gusts
up to 30 kt possible at times.

Sunday: VFR during the day, a chance of MVFR or lower conditions
at night in rain and/or snow.

Monday: VFR.

Tuesday: VFR. 

Detailed information, including hourly TAF wind component
forecasts, can be found at: https:/www.weather.gov/zny/n90

&&

.MARINE...
SCA for the ocean extended through daytime Sat and may need to
be extended further into Sunday. Wind gusts to 25 kt in S flow
and seas 5-6 ft this morning should subside for a while this
afternoon, then S swells 5-6 ft return tonight, and N-NW winds 
gust to 25-30 kt on all waters daytime Sat between departing low
pressure and building strong high pressure. Leftover 25-kt gusts
on the ocean and ern Sound/bays, and 5+ ft ocean seas, should
subside Sat night as the high builds over the waters, with quiet
cond thereafter through Tue night.

&&

.HYDROLOGY...
There are no hydrologic concerns attm.

&&

.OKX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CT...Winter Weather Advisory until 10 AM EST this morning for 
     CTZ005.
NY...Winter Weather Advisory until 10 AM EST this morning for 
     NYZ067>070.
NJ...Winter Weather Advisory until 10 AM EST this morning for 
     NJZ002-004-103.
MARINE...Small Craft Advisory until 6 PM EST Saturday for ANZ350-353-
     355.

&&

$$

SYNOPSIS...BG/JM
NEAR TERM...BG
SHORT TERM...BG
LONG TERM...JM
AVIATION...JM
MARINE...BG/JM
HYDROLOGY...BG/JM
