344 
FXUS61 KOKX 101809
AFDOKX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service New York NY
209 PM EDT Thu Jul 10 2025

.SYNOPSIS...
A stagnant pattern will keep chances for some showers and 
thunderstorms in the forecast thru Fri. High pressure builds 
off the New England coast this weekend, before a frontal system 
approaches from the west early next week. The associated cold 
front moves through on Monday, and high pressure returns into 
midweek.

&&

.NEAR TERM /THROUGH TONIGHT/...
As an upr trof continues to track ewd this aftn and eve, the 
associated dpva will do so as well. This will tend to keep the best 
upr support over the Atlc. The airmass over most of the CWA has been 
worked over as well, so without the good forcing, it may be 
difficult to initiate any substantial convection this aftn and eve 
across most of the area. Extreme nwrn zones look to destabilize most 
based on clearing indicated on stlt and the lack of pcpn earlier 
today. As a result, the best chances for isold-sct aftn/eve 
development should be in those areas. With the loss of daytime 
heating and the passage of the upr trof axis overnight, any pcpn 
should wind down across the CWA. With a lgt to calm flow tngt, some 
patchy fog is possible with the llvl moisture lingering.

&&

.SHORT TERM /FRIDAY THROUGH FRIDAY NIGHT/...
Increasing CAPE and decreasing CIN on Fri, but subsidence across the 
region is expected to limit/inhibit convective initiation attm. 
Still cannot rule out a few isold or widely sct aftn/eve tstms, 
particularly across the interior where there is some terrain to work 
with. The GFS does bring isold activity across the entire CWA, but 
without support from the NAM, have left the NBM pops unaltered. 

Some patchy fog again modeled for Fri ngt. A very subtle lljet may 
try to produce a few shwrs or tstms overnight, again mainly nwrn 
areas, but the NBM has not latched on to this yet so something to 
look for. The NAM and GFS have a weak signal.

Hotter on Fri with all areas in the 80s, and the usual hot spots 
across the SW approaching 90. The MAV and NBS has 90 at EWR.

&&

.LONG TERM /SATURDAY THROUGH THURSDAY/...
High pressure builds off the coast of Nova Scotia and maintains an 
offshore flow much of the weekend. This should help keep much of 
southern CT and LI dry, though inland western areas will see showers 
and thunderstorms possible each afternoon with a moist BL in SE flow 
and diurnal heating helping to build instability.

Thereafter, a broad mid level trough centered over the Upper Great 
Lakes translates east into early next week, helping advance a 
frontal system toward and through the region, bringing increased 
chances for a more widespread rainfall, especially on Monday ahead 
of the cold front. Parameters appear at least marginally supportive 
of thunderstorm development, but steering flow appears progressive 
enough to mitigate significant flood concerns.

Conditions dry behind the fropa into midweek as weak high pressure 
drifts in and NW flow aloft looks to lower the humidity. 
Temperatures through the period look to largely stay in the 80s most 
afternoons thru early week, with a gradual warm up then into mid 
next week.

National blended guidance was followed for this update.

&&

.AVIATION /18Z THURSDAY THROUGH TUESDAY/...
A surface trough remains in the vicinity of the terminals through 
Friday.

Mainly VFR with MVFR across Long Island east of the NYC terminals, 
and IFR at KGON. An isolated thunderstorms is possible at KSWF late 
afternoon. Conditions lower late this evening and tonight, becoming 
MVFR at the NYC metro terminals, and IFR, possibly LIFR a the other 
terminals, except KSWF which may only briefly be MVFR toward Friday 
morning. Timing and lowering of flight categories are somewhat 
uncertain. Conditions slowly improve to VFR Friday morning, except 
at KGON which may remain MVFR into the afternoon. An isolated 
thunderstorm will again be possible at KSWF Friday afternoon.

Winds will be light S to SE this afternoon, and become light and 
variable at all terminals this evening into tonight. A light SE flow 
develops Friday morning, except a light NE flow initially at KLGA.


 ...NY Metro (KEWR/KLGA/KJFK/KTEB) TAF Uncertainty... 

Amendments likely late tonight into Friday morning for timing and 
flight categories of ceilings/visibilities.


.OUTLOOK FOR 18Z FRIDAY THROUGH TUESDAY... 

Friday afternoon - Sunday: Mainly VFR. A chance of showers and 
thunderstorms during the afternoon and early evening near and 
northwest of the NYC terminals.

Monday: VFR. A chance of showers and thunderstorms, becoming likely 
during the afternoon northwest of the NYC terminals. MVFR conditions 
in showers and thunderstorms.

Tuesday: VFR. Slight chance of showers and thunderstorms.

Detailed information, including hourly TAF wind component forecasts, 
can be found at: https:/www.weather.gov/zny/n90

&&

.MARINE...
Outside of tstms, winds and seas are expected to remain blw sca lvls 
thru Fri ngt.

Light flow and low seas should then maintain sub Small Craft 
Advisory conditions on all coastal waters through early next 
week.

&&

.HYDROLOGY...
Any tstms that develop thru Fri ngt could produce highly localized 
minor flooding.

No significant hydro concerns in the long term.

&&

.TIDES/COASTAL FLOODING...
Rip current risk forecast is moderate both for today and Friday
for the ocean beaches of NYC and Long Island due to onshore flow
of near 5-10 kts as well as 3 to 4 ft of 7-8 sec period swell as
well as some smaller onshore long period swell of 1 ft and 
11-12 sec period.

&&

.OKX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CT...None.
NY...None.
NJ...None.
MARINE...None.

&&

$$

SYNOPSIS...JMC/DR
NEAR TERM...JMC
SHORT TERM...JMC
LONG TERM...DR
AVIATION...MET
MARINE...JMC/DR
HYDROLOGY...JMC/DR
TIDES/COASTAL FLOODING...
