777 
FXUS61 KOKX 021805
AFDOKX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service New York NY
Issued by National Weather Service Mount Holly NJ
205 PM EDT Mon Jun 2 2025

.SYNOPSIS...
Another surface trough will track across the area later this
afternoon into this evening, otherwise high pressure will build
in from the south and west through tonight. High pressure will 
then be centered along the eastern seaboard on Tuesday, tracking
slowly east through midweek. A cold front will slowly approach 
the area Thursday through Friday, finally passing on Saturday. 
High pressure builds in on Sunday.

&&

.NEAR TERM /THROUGH TONIGHT/...
Forecast mainly on track. Have some more clouds, diurnal
cumulus, especially north and west of NYC. However, expect cloud
coverage to remain few to sct. Temperatures remain on track with
some slight adjustments.

Today will be the last day to contend with an upper trough as 
it works offshore late tonight. Another shortwave on the backside
of the trough will drop across the eastern Great Lakes and into
the area this afternoon/evening, sending another surface trough
across the area. While the airmass is dry, would not be totally
surprised to see a brief pop up shower or sprinkle, but confidence
is too low to add to the forecast at this time. Expect to see
some high based stratocu this afternoon into early this evening
with skies at times becoming partly cloudy.

Highs today will be in the lower to mid 70s, which is close to 
normal. Locations along the immediate south shore of LI may not 
get out of the 60s with a weak onshore southerly flow developing
by this afternoon. Lows tonight will be in the upper 40s inland
and across the Pine Barrens region of LI, with the 50s elsewhere.
This is at or just below normal.

&&

.SHORT TERM /TUESDAY THROUGH TUESDAY NIGHT/...
An anomalously warm upper ridge (+2SD) builds across the 
eastern third of the country bringing a taste of summertime to 
the area. Highs on Tuesday will generally be in the upper 70s to
lower 80s, but for Wednesday warming to around 80 at the coast 
and the mid to upper 80s across parts of the NYC metro and inland
locations. The latter is about 7 to 10 degrees above normal. 
NBM probabilities for greater than 90 highest across NE NJ 
Wednesday at around 50 percent. NBM box and whisker plots for
max temperature show the deterministic values to still be at or
below the 25th percentile. This would lead one to believe that 
temperatures could be a few degrees warmer, closer to the 50th 
percentile. However, not seeing much support at this time from 
MOS guidance. So for the time have stayed the course. 

Winds during this time will generally be southerly at or below 
10 mph. Expect few if any clouds with upper ridging and 
subsidence across the area.

&&

.LONG TERM /WEDNESDAY THROUGH MONDAY/...
Surface high pressure over the area centered just offshore to the 
south loses its hold on the region as it moves much farther to the 
south through Thursday. A ridge aloft Wednesday night also begins to 
break down, becoming more zonal aloft on Thursday. Despite this, 
heights remain high, so a warming trend is still expected. 

Highs on Thursday will push 90 degrees in areas N & W of NYC with 
low to mid-80s at the coast. The NBM deterministic is lower with 
high temps than the 25th percentile. The 75th percentile reaches the 
mid/upper-90s in NE NJ. Stuck closer to the deterministic NBM with 
this one. A shortwave trough being resolved by most global models 
should push through in the afternoon with a surface trough 
increasing cloud cover enough over areas N & W of the city to 
partially shut off some radiational heating. There is also a slight 
chance for showers or thunderstorms in the afternoon and evening 
given the nearby boundary and warmer temps in the interior, but 
chances aren't looking overly optimistic.

Precip chances increase Friday into Saturday as heights gradually 
drop aloft from a longwave trough in Canada and a low over the Great 
Lakes on Friday passes NE of the area on Saturday sending a cold 
front through the CWA Saturday afternoon/evening. Chance POPs are 
expected on Friday from showers and thunderstorms with highs in the 
low/mid-80s, limited at some coastal areas in the 70s. Rain chances 
may continue into the night with the best chance for showers and 
thunderstorms due to enhanced lift (and still warm temperatures) 
with the cold front later on Saturday. This will be the final round 
of rain with high pressure building into the beginning of next week 
following the cold frontal passage. There is some timing discrepancy 
with the models with this front, so have carried slight chance POPs 
into Saturday night for a slow/weaker cold front scenario.

&&

.AVIATION /18Z MONDAY THROUGH SATURDAY/...
A weak surface trough moves across early this evening. High
pressure then builds in and quickly offshore through Tuesday. 

VFR conditions remain through the TAF period. Winds near 10 kts
or less through the TAF period. Some gusts to 20 kt are possible
this afternoon but probably only occasional in frequency. Sea 
breeze has developed at some terminals with more S-SW flow near 
10 kt. Other terminals have W-NW flow. Wind direction is 
variable to NW flow tonight into early Tuesday.
 
Expecting more sea breezes Tuesday afternoon along with slightly
higher wind speeds. All terminals get to more southerly
component with winds Tuesday but KSWF likely stays more 
westerly.

Smoke aloft from Canadian wildfires may be observed but is 
expected to impact low level visibility.

 ...NY Metro (KEWR/KLGA/KJFK/KTEB) TAF Uncertainty... 

Amendments possible pertaining to the timing of the sea breeze
and if gusts become more frequent.

.OUTLOOK FOR 18Z TUESDAY THROUGH SATURDAY... 

Tuesday: VFR. S-SW wind gusts to near 20 kt possible in the 
afternoon.

Tuesday night through Wednesday: VFR. 

Thursday: Mainly VFR.

Friday: Possible MVFR/IFR with chance of showers/tstms.

Saturday: Possible MVFR/IFR with showers likely. Chance of 
tstms.

&&

.MARINE...
Expect sub-SCA conditions through Friday as waters will be
largely influenced by high pressure and a southerly flow. 

SCA conditions are forecasted to be met Saturday into Saturday night 
with an approaching and passing cold front on the ocean waters 
for waves. All waters also have a chance of nearing SCA gusts 
during this timeframe.

&&

.HYDROLOGY...
There are no hydrologic concerns through the forecast period.

&&

.OKX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CT...None.
NY...None.
NJ...None.
MARINE...None.

&&

$$

SYNOPSIS...BR/DW
NEAR TERM...JM/DW
SHORT TERM...DW
LONG TERM...BR
AVIATION...JM
MARINE...BR/DW
HYDROLOGY...BR/DW
