785 
FXUS61 KOKX 230644
AFDOKX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service New York NY
244 AM EDT Sat Aug 23 2025

.SYNOPSIS...
High pressure along the northeast coast continues to drift 
offshore through Saturday night. A cold front approaches Sunday 
evening and moves slowly through the area late Sunday night into
Monday. High pressure then gradually builds in for the middle 
to end of next week.

&&

.NEAR TERM /THROUGH TODAY/...
Surface high pressure was drifting off the northeast coast, and
will continue to drift eastward through today. Clear to mostly
clear conditions are expected today with temperatures near
seasonal levels.

&&

.SHORT TERM /TONIGHT THROUGH MONDAY/...
A large upper closed low and trough across central and eastern
Canada, extending into the upper midwest, will move slowly
eastward through Monday. At the surface a cold front associated
with surface low pressure north of the Great Lakes will be slow
to progress eastward through Sunday, as the flow nearly become
parallel to the front. There will be a little increase in the
forward speed Sunday night as a wave possibly develops on the 
front along the Delmarva. With the slower progression of the
upper low and surface front precipitation becomes delayed moving
into the area for Sunday, and will be mainly late in the day and
into Sunday evening. There is an increase in precipitable
waters, up to 1.5 inches, and will a slow eastward storm motion
a few showers and thunderstorms have the potential of producing
briefly heavy rainfall. By late Monday the front is likely to be
east of the area.

&&

.LONG TERM /MONDAY NIGHT THROUGH FRIDAY/...
Key Points:

* Mainly dry conditions Monday night through Friday.

* Near normal temperatures Monday, then a slight cooldown to 
  below normal highs from Tuesday onward.

There has been no significant change to the forecast thinking for 
the extended period. Global models remain in decent agreement. 
Synoptic-scale ridging pushes east of the area Sunday allowing 
for a deep southwest flow to develop ahead of a deepening closed
upper low over eastern Canada. This low over eastern Canada 
extends an h5 trough over the eastern 2/3 of the CONUS then 
remains over the east for much of the rest of the extended 
timeframe. This will keep the local area in predominately 
west/southwest flow aloft for much of the week.

A cold front pushes offshore by early Tuesday. High pressure 
then builds back in from the Central Plains, for the remainder 
of the period.

&&

.AVIATION /06Z SATURDAY THROUGH WEDNESDAY/...
High pressure currently over the region gradually slides 
offshore later today into tonight.

VFR through the period. 

SW flow generally 5 to 10 kt for the city terminals overnight into 
Saturday morning, becoming S 10-15g20kt for most terminals in the 
afternoon. Gusts to 25 kt likely for KJFK and KLGA in the late 
aft/eve with coastal jet formation. S winds decreasing to 8 to 12 
late evening. 

 ...NY Metro (KEWR/KLGA/KJFK/KTEB) TAF Uncertainty...

S 15-20g25kt likely btwn 20z - 00z.

.OUTLOOK FOR 06Z SUNDAY THROUGH TUESDAY...

Late Saturday night: VFR. 

Sunday and Monday: Scattered showers Sun PM through Mon PM, isolated 
tstm possible in the aft/eve. MVFR cigs possible Sun AM, and Sun 
night into Mon AM.

Tuesday and Wednesday: VFR.

Detailed information, including hourly TAF wind component forecasts, 
can be found at: https:/www.weather.gov/zny/n90

&&

.MARINE...
Small Craft Advisories remain on the ocean waters into  
Saturday evening, with the E long period swells slow to 
subside and combined with Sat aft/eve coastal jet formation.

Ocean seas then fall below SCA levels for late Saturday night.
Conditions then remain below advisory levels for all waters 
into mid next week.

&&

.HYDROLOGY...
There are no hydrologic concerns through the middle of next
week.

&&

.TIDES/COASTAL FLOODING...
A high risk for rip currents goes through Sunday for the Atlantic 
Ocean beaches as residual long period 3 to 4 ft easterly swell will 
be slow to subside, combined with a 1-2 ft southerly wind wave. 

High surf and dune erosion threat with 5 to 9 ft breakers will 
gradually decrease overnight with beach erosion/flooding and 
escarpment the primary threat for Sat high tides with a west to east 
sweeping surf of 4 to 7 ft.

Localized minor coastal flooding anticipated for early Saturday for 
South Shore Bays of Long Island and Southern Westchester and 
Southern Fairfield coastlines.

&&

.OKX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CT...None.
NY...High Risk for Rip Currents through Sunday evening for NYZ075-080-
     081-178-179.
     High Surf Advisory until 4 AM EDT early this morning for 
     NYZ080-081-179.
NJ...None.
MARINE...Small Craft Advisory until 11 PM EDT this evening for ANZ350-
     353-355.

&&

$$

SYNOPSIS...DBR/MET
NEAR TERM...MET
SHORT TERM...MET
LONG TERM...DBR
AVIATION...JE
MARINE...MET
HYDROLOGY...MET
TIDES/COASTAL FLOODING...JE
