616 
FXUS61 KOKX 230555
AFDOKX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service New York NY
155 AM EDT Sun Mar 23 2025

.SYNOPSIS...
High pressure builds in for Sunday. A frontal system moves 
across Sunday night into Monday. Weakening low pressure will 
track across southeastern Canada Monday night into Tuesday 
night, with another weak low passing to the south late Tuesday 
night into Wednesday. High pressure then builds in to the south 
for the end of the week. A frontal system may impact the region 
Saturday.

&&

.NEAR TERM /UNTIL 6 AM THIS MORNING/...
High pressure will build in from the west overnight as a cold 
front continues to move east of the area. A gusty NW flow is 
expected overnight with speeds the 30-35 mph range. The NW flow 
will usher in a colder airmass with temperatures falling into 
the middle and upper 20 north and west of NYC and temperatures 
in the lower 30s closer to the coast. The combination of gusty 
winds and colder temperatures will make it feel like the teens 
and lower 20s towards daybreak.

&&

.SHORT TERM /6 AM THIS MORNING THROUGH 6 PM MONDAY/...
Brief mid level ridging Sunday and surface high pressure moving 
across will maintain dry conditions during the day. NW flow remains 
gusty to start the day but will decrease during the day as the 
pressure gradient weakens. 

Models convey warmer air advecting in at 850mb. This will set up an 
inversion. Less vertical mixing is expected especially as winds 
become lighter. The max temperatures forecast Sunday are expected to 
be around 10 degrees cooler than the previous day max
temperatures. Used the NBM for high temperature forecast.

Also mitigating the high temperature will be increasing clouds 
during the day as the high pressure will be relatively weak.
Upstream higher level clouds will expand and move into the local 
region for the afternoon but still expect substantial sunshine
overall.

Incoming mid level trough for Sunday night with closed off low 
moving east within Great Lakes. At the surface, there will be a 
surface low moving eastward through the Great Lakes. An 
associated warm front approaches from the south and west. 

Strong mid level shortwave moves across early Monday and then east 
of the region Monday afternoon. However, overall in the larger 
scale, region remains in the longer wavelength trough with that 
closed low moving into SE Canada, near Ontario and Quebec border. 

At the surface, warm front slows down as it moves across with a
weak low pressure area developing along it. The low pressure 
makes its way across the area Monday afternoon with a cold front
to the south of it. Surface winds go from southerly Sunday 
night into early Monday to more southwesterly Monday afternoon.

Surface and low level winds become more southerly Sunday evening 
across the region. These winds will increase Sunday night into 
Monday morning. The approaching system low level jet comes 
across for early Monday morning. 

Low level warm air advection expected Sunday night into Monday. 
Precipitation returns, more of a stratiform overrunning
rainfall. Precipitation starts mainly late Sunday night. This 
will be primarily light. Locations within the northern half of the
forecast region are forecast to have enough wet bulb cooling for 
a mix of rain and snow with some periods of all snow before 5AM 
Monday. Warmer temperatures and boundary layer along the coast 
keeps precipitation all rain for southern half of the forecast 
region.

As this low level warm air advection increases, more early Monday, 
the precipitation forcing increases. This will make for a steadier 
rainfall along the coast. Bulk of the rain is expected early Monday, 
with rain being the dominant weather feature Monday morning. Some 
interior locations will have a wintry mix, around 5AM to 10AM 
Monday but those locations are also expected to warm up enough 
to make for all rain by late Monday morning. Frontal system
precipitation closes out late Monday morning through Monday
afternoon with rain. Rain likely lingers across Southern CT and
Long Island late afternoon into early Monday evening with 
lesser chances of rain to the west across the rest of the 
forecast region. 

Any snow for the event confined to the interior with potential
for near 1 inch or less of snow. Any ice accumulation just
potential to be a glaze. Uncertainty with low level warm layer
at 850mb early Monday, NAM higher temperature, GFS less
temperature. Used a blend with thicknesses for that
precipitation type forecast.

&&

.LONG TERM /MONDAY NIGHT THROUGH SATURDAY/...
No significant changes to the extended with this update as generally 
quiet weather persists through the period. And with no significant 
variance in the guidance, and targets of opportunity, mainly used 
the NBM deterministic guidance. However, for the possibility of 
windier conditions Monday night into Tuesday, and Wednesday night 
into Thursday, leaned toward the higher 75th and 90th percentiles 
for winds and gusts. Temperatures will be generally near normal, 
with slightly above normal lows Monday night, and with the approach 
of a warm front late in the week, temperatures may be 5 to near 10 
degrees above normal Thursday night into Saturday. Although there 
is uncertainty as to where the warm front will set up by late in 
the week as the associated low will be over the plain states.

A upper level high amplitude longwave trough will be over the 
eastern states Monday night into Wednesday night with a high 
amplitude ridge over the western states. The trough begins to move 
offshore late Wednesday night as heights rise Wednesday night into 
Saturday as the upper ridge moves slowly eastward, and gradually 
weakens next Saturday.

Late Tuesday night through Wednesday there is a chance of 
precipitation as energy moves into the base of the upper trough, and 
surface low pressure passes to the south. Any precipitation will be 
light, with rain along the coast, and snow inland. Then dry weather 
is expected Wednesday night into next Saturday as the ridge and 
surface high pressure dominate. And the next chance of precipitation 
will be later Saturday with a warm front, and forcing along this 
boundary. Although there is uncertainty as to where this will set 
up with the surface low well to the west.

&&

.AVIATION /06Z SUNDAY THROUGH THURSDAY/...
High pressure builds in from the west through Sunday and then
passes to the east Sunday evening. A warm front approaches from
the SW late Sunday night. 

Mainly VFR, with MVFR/IFR conditions developing after 06Z with 
the onset rain. The precipitation may start off as snow or a 
rain/snow mix at KSWF before going over to all rain by 12Z 
Monday.

NW winds with gusts 25-30kt will gradually subside through this
morning with gusts likely lost by afternoon. Winds will veer 
around to the S/SW in the afternoon with a seabreeze component 
likely at the coastal terminals by late afternoon/early 
evening. 

 ...NY Metro (KEWR/KLGA/KJFK/KTEB) TAF Uncertainty... 

Gusts may become occasional around daybreak.

Timing of wind gusts dropping off later this morning and wind 
shifts this afternoon may vary by 1-2 hours. 

.OUTLOOK FOR 06Z MONDAY THROUGH THURSDAY...

Late Sunday Night and Monday: Becoming IFR with rain. Possible 
onset as snow for KSWF. S winds G15-25kt, strongest near the 
coast on Monday.

Tuesday: VFR. WSW winds G20 kt possible.

Wednesday: MVFR possible. Chance of showers. 

Thursday: VFR.

Detailed information, including hourly TAF wind component forecasts, 
can be found at: https:/www.weather.gov/zny/n90

&&

.MARINE...
Small craft advisories, SCAs, are in effect for the ocean and 
stay in effect through Sunday morning. Some lingering SCA ocean 
seas and some lingering SCA wind gusts Sunday afternoon east of 
Fire Island Inlet, so that segment SCA goes until 3PM Sunday. 
Non-ocean waters have SCA in effect from 8PM tonight until 9AM
Sunday and then all non-ocean marine zones except for NY Harbor
and Western LI Sound go until 12PM Sunday for their SCA. 

Brief sub-SCA conditions forecast for the waters Sunday
afternoon for most waters, after 3PM Sunday afternoon, east of
Fire Island Inlet on the ocean and that continues through much 
of Sunday night. However, SCA potential increases late Sunday 
night for parts of the ocean. Most waters in SCA range for wind 
gusts Monday. Ocean seas rise back to 5 to 7 ft late Sunday 
night into Monday.

Small craft advisory level ocean seas will likely continue Monday 
night into Tuesday evening with a weakening southwest flow. Then 
winds and seas will be below advisory levels across the forecast 
waters Tuesday night through Thursday. With an increasing southwest 
flow late Thursday night ocean seas may build to near 5 feet.

&&

.HYDROLOGY...
Low pressure system tonight, less than a tenth of an inch of
rain.

Low pressure system late Sunday night through Monday evening,
around 0.25 to 0.5 inch of rain/liquid equivalent.

No hydrologic impacts expected through the end of next week.

&&

.OKX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CT...None.
NY...None.
NJ...None.
MARINE...Small Craft Advisory until noon EDT today for ANZ331-332-340-
     345-355.
     Small Craft Advisory until 9 AM EDT this morning for ANZ335-
     338.
     Small Craft Advisory until 3 PM EDT this afternoon for ANZ350-
     353.

&&

$$

SYNOPSIS...JM/MET
NEAR TERM...JM/MET
SHORT TERM...JM
LONG TERM...MET
AVIATION...DW
MARINE...JM/MET
HYDROLOGY...JM/MET
