090 
FXUS61 KOKX 160455
AFDOKX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service New York NY
1255 AM EDT Sun Mar 16 2025

.SYNOPSIS...
A warm front lifts across the area early this morning. A strong
cold then approaches, moving through the region into Monday. 
High pressure returns Tuesday and Wednesday. A fast moving 
frontal system moves across the area Thursday into Thursday 
night. High pressure may return Friday into next Saturday.

&&

.NEAR TERM /UNTIL 6 AM THIS MORNING/...
Offshore high pressure weakens this morning as a warm front 
approaches from the south and moves through the area.

Hoisted SPS regionwide for patchy dense fog into early this 
morning. Will continue to monitor surface obs should an
extension or advisory be warranted, but for now vsbys under 1/4
mi remain localized. Otherwise, mist and drizzle accompany the 
fog with the warm front lifting thru the area toward daybreak. 
Additional lift from the front may also instigate some light 
rain rather than just mist or drizzle. 

Temperatures remain mild in the 40s, likely inching up a couple
of degrees overnight with the fropa.

&&

.SHORT TERM /6 AM THIS MORNING THROUGH 6 PM MONDAY/...
A warm front moves north of the region early in the day Sunday,
and with the area warm sectored, once precipitation ends in the
morning, much of the rest of the day will be dry. Temperatures
will be nearly 15 degrees above normal across the region. With a
long southerly fetch low level moisture will be increasing
during the afternoon and into the evening, with precipitable
water values approaching 1 inch late in the day, and nearly 1.5
inches Sunday night, about as high as measured this time of 
year. Increasing lift with a developing pre frontal trough will 
lead to period of moderate to potentially heavy rainfall. Add 
some elevated instability and CAPE along with the lift will 
lead to the potential of isolated thunderstorms inland, while a 
strong marine influence to the east will limit instability. 
Rainfall rates may be near 0.50 inches per hour at times, and 
local flooding of urban and poor drainage areas will be 
possible, and the entire region remains in a marginal risk of 
excessive rainfall, and localized flash flooding cannot be ruled
out especially across the far eastern areas which will see 
higher rainfall totals. These higher totals across the east will
be associated with the slower movement of the pre frontal and 
cold front as waves of low pressure develop as the front moves 
off shore. With the slower movement of the cold front, chances 
of precipitation linger through the day Monday.

&&

.LONG TERM /MONDAY NIGHT THROUGH SATURDAY/...
Key Points:

* A few lingering showers possible across eastern Long Island 
  and southeast Connecticut Monday evening.

* Dry conditions return late Monday night and should prevail 
  through mid week.

* Another frontal system moves across the area Thursday into 
  Thursday night bringing the next chance for showers.

* Temperatures look to average above through Thursday before 
  trending near to slightly below normal to end the week.
 
The cold front will continue moving offshore Monday evening. A wave 
of low pressure likely forms on the front which could help linger a 
few showers across eastern Long Island and southeast Connecticut in 
the evening. The front and associated wave should pass far enough 
offshore to bring an end to any showers by midnight across these 
areas. Otherwise, clouds will gradually clear from west to east 
through day break Tuesday. 

The upper trough axis pushes east Tuesday morning as an upper ridge 
builds over the northeast. The trough that passes offshore will 
become a cutoff low over the western Atlantic as it gets trapped 
beneath the upper ridge. The upper ridge will then slowly push east 
through Thursday as the next amplifying upper trough quickly 
approaches. At the surface, high pressure will be in control Tuesday 
and Wednesday. The frontal system associated with the aforementioned 
next upper trough will quickly move across the region Thursday into 
Thursday night. Have held onto a 50 percent chance for showers late 
Thursday/Thursday night as there are still timing and strength 
differences with the system. The NBM probabilities for observing 
greater than 1 inch in a 12 or 24 period have fallen and are now 
generally less than 5 percent, which seems reasonable given the 
progressive nature of the modeled system. 

The front should be offshore to end the week. The associated upper 
trough may become a cutoff low near or just off the New England 
coast late Friday into the first half of the weekend as high 
pressure starts building in from the west. This could create a tight 
pressure gradient and lead to a windy Friday. NBM deterministic 
temperatures have trended cooler for Friday with at least modest 
cold advection and W-NW flow. Depending on how quick the offshore 
upper low departs will determine if the surface high can settle over 
the region next Saturday. Temperatures should trend closer to 
seasonal normals for next Saturday as the air mass starts to 
moderate.

&&

.AVIATION /06Z SUNDAY THROUGH THURSDAY/...
A warm front moves through tonight. A cold front will approach
from the west late Sunday.

IFR/LIFR at most sites through the morning with low clouds, fog
and drizzle. The NYC metros north/west may see some improvement
to MVFR in the afternoon. Showers look to hold off until close
to 00Z Mon. 

SE flow 10 kt or less tonight should become S 10-15 with some
gusts up to 10 kt after warm fropa Sunday morning. By afternoon,
speeds 15-20kt with gusts 25-30kt will be possible, especially
along the coast. 

LLWS expected late tonight as S winds increase to 40-45kt, then
to 50+ kt in the afternoon mainly from the NYC metro terminals
east. Up to 60kt LLWS possible at KJFK/KISP.

 ...NY Metro (KEWR/KLGA/KJFK/KTEB) TAF Uncertainty...

Unscheduled AMD likely to address changes in flight category
tonight. 

.OUTLOOK FOR 00Z MONDAY THROUGH THURSDAY...

Sunday Night: IFR with showers. LLWS continues, then ramps own
late. 

Monday: Showers with IFR/LIFR cond, tapering off in the 
afternoon. Improvement to MVFR from the NYC metros north/west 
late morning/early afternoon, KBDR/KISP 18Z, KGON 21Z. NW winds
G20kt late afternoon/early evening. 

Tuesday and Wednesday: VFR.

Wednesday night and Thursday morning: IFR/LIFR cigs possible 
especially along the coast. 

Thursday afternoon and night: Chance of showers with MVFR cond
possible. S winds 10-15 kt with G20-25 kt. 

Detailed information, including hourly TAF wind component
forecasts, can be found at: https:/www.weather.gov/zny/n90

&&

.MARINE...
Main concern early this morning is areas of dense fog. Satellite
data and coastal webcams indicate visibilities are likely at or
under 1 nm across much of the coastal waters and have hoisted a
Dense Fog Advisory until 12Z Sun. Gradual improvement expected 
thereafter into mid to late morning. 

Otherwise, conditions should remain below SCA levels across the
waters to start the day. An increasing southerly flow today, 
ahead of an approaching frontal system will approach gale force 
gusts, especially over the outer ocean waters. Confidence in 
gale gusts across the remainder of the waters has lowered as a 
strong low level inversion will prevent the higher winds aloft 
from mixing to the water surface. However, with uncertainty will
leave up the Gale Watch for all the waters at this time. A the 
cold front moves into the waters and waves of low pressure 
develop along the front late Sunday night toward Monday morning,
winds and gusts will diminish and drop to less than SCA levels,
with ocean seas remaining at SCA levels.

Ocean seas will remain elevated at or above 5 ft Monday night 
through Thursday mainly due to lingering SE swells. Winds on all
waters should be below SCA levels Monday night through 
Wednesday. The next chance for SCA winds will be Thursday into 
Thursday night as a cold front moves across the waters.

&&

.HYDROLOGY...
A frontal system is expected to produce a widespread 1-2 inches
of rain Sunday evening through Monday evening, with up to 2.25
inches across SE Connecticut and the twin forks of Long Island.
Localized higher amounts are possible, especially across the 
eastern areas. Heavy downpours could lead to nuisance flooding 
in urban and poor drainage areas, especially Sunday night and 
Monday morning. While localized flash flooding cannot be ruled 
out, the overall risk is low.

No hydrologic impacts are expected Monday night through the end of 
next week.

&&

.OKX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CT...None.
NY...None.
NJ...None.
MARINE...Dense Fog Advisory until 8 AM EDT this morning for ANZ331-332-
     335-338-340-345-350-353-355.
     Gale Watch from 6 AM EDT this morning through late tonight for 
     ANZ331-332-335-338-340-345-350-353-355.

&&

$$

SYNOPSIS...DS/MET
NEAR TERM...DR/DS/MET
SHORT TERM...MET
LONG TERM...DS
AVIATION...BG
MARINE...DS/MET
HYDROLOGY...DS/MET
