085 
FXUS61 KOKX 051146
AFDOKX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service New York NY
646 AM EST Wed Mar 5 2025

.SYNOPSIS...
Deepening low pressure will track to our north and west and send a 
pre-frontal trough through the area this evening and then a 
cold front Thursday morning. The low slowly departs to the 
northeast through Friday. A weak frontal system then passes 
nearby on Saturday. Another low pressure system should pass well
to the south on Sunday as weak high pressure moves in through 
early next week.

&&

.NEAR TERM /THROUGH TONIGHT/...
The forecast is on track this morning. Some returns have made
their way into Orange County, but nothing appears to be reaching
the ground for now.

Deepening low pressure approaches from the west today. It is 
currently located over the Middle Mississippi Valley and will track 
northeastward over the Great Lakes. As it lifts, the associated 
upper level low will open up and become negatively tilted. Out ahead 
of the low, the pressure gradient gradually tightens and a 
strengthening southerly wind will advect in an anomalous amount
of moisture for this time of year.

There is great agreement across the CAMs that a batch of showers 
will move through from west to east late this afternoon through 
early tonight ahead of a pre-frontal trough. Given the anomalous 
moisture (dewpoints near 50 degrees and pwats around 1.25 
inches) and strong, deep lift, moderate to locally heavy showers
are expected. See hydrology section below. There is very little
instability aloft, but will keep mention of isolated thunder in
the forecast as it can not be ruled out.

While a strong low level jet will move over the area, a decent 
inversion will keep much of this wind aloft. 65 to 75 knots is 
progged at 925mb. Gusts will likely not be higher than 50-60% of 
those values, which falls short of Wind Advisory criteria. Gusts 
peak this evening and overnight, with 40 mph gusts possible across 
Long Island and 30 to 35 mph gusts elsewhere.

The deep S/SW flow will allow some western and interior areas to
warm up to the upper 50s and potentially hit 60. Across Long
Island and Southern CT the onshore flow will keep temps in the
low to mid 50s, still above normal for early March. Areas on the
immediate coastline likely do not make it out of the 40s.

&&

.SHORT TERM /THURSDAY THROUGH FRIDAY/...
The cold front moves through Thursday morning, with the upper level 
trough axis lagging behind. This will allow for some cloud 
cover and lingering rain shower chances. A strong northwest flow
doesn't pick up until Thursday night. Went higher than NBM 90th
percentile with forecast soundings showing mixing up to 850mb 
in strong CAA. Current forecast has widespread 45 mph gusts. 
Have held off with any Wind Advisory for now given the marginal
values.

Above normal temps continue Thursday and Friday. Highs will be
in the upper 40s and 50s.

&&

.LONG TERM /FRIDAY NIGHT THROUGH TUESDAY/...
A weak trough and low will pass south of the area Friday night into 
Saturday morning. While it will remain mostly dry, can not rule out 
a brief rain or snow shower during this period. Otherwise, expect m 
mostly sunny conditions for Saturday afternoon with highs in the 
middle and upper 40s. Model consensus then keeps a stronger area of 
low pressure and associated precip well to our south on Sunday. 

A fast flow aloft brings uncertainty regarding the timing and 
strength of weak clipper-type lows or troughs potentially shifting 
nearby during the Sunday night through Monday period. In any case, 
moisture is limited, so will go with a dry forecast for the time 
being. Ridging at the surface and aloft with a SW flow then brings 
us milder weather for Tuesday. The dry conditions will continue into 
Wednesday.

&&

.AVIATION /12Z WEDNESDAY THROUGH SUNDAY/...
**HIGH IMPACT AVIATION WEATHER THIS AFTERNOON/TONIGHT**

Deepening low pressure will lift into the Great Lakes today, 
sending a strong frontal system into the area.

Still maintaining a mainly VFR forecast until late afternoon or 
early evening. The exception will remain at KHPN and KSWF where 
conditions are expected to lower more quickly this morning. 
That being said, it's still not out of the question for lower 
conditions to develop sooner or at least be occasional. The 
outlier is whether the low-levels moisten quicker with the high 
dew point air moving across the ocean waters. 

A strong low level jet ahead of the low and approaching cold 
front will result in LLWS developing this morning and 
continuing into tonight. At this time of year, with the cold 
ocean waters and warm air moving across them, there will be a 
strong inversion in place. This will limit the magnitude of the 
wind getting to the surface, but still expect gusts of 25 to 35 
kt in the afternoon and at night. Isolated gusts up to 40 kt at 
the coastal terminals. Winds at top of the inversion around 2000
ft will peak at 55 to 65 kt.

Heavy showers are expected with a pre-frontal trough and strong low-
level jet during the evening hours Wednesday. An isolated 
thunderstorm is possible, but confidence is too low to put in any 
TAFs at this time.

Most of the precipitation and LLWS ends around or after 06z,
with IFR or lower conditions expected til 12z or so. Improvement
back to VFR is then expected Thursday morning around 15-16z. 

 ...NY Metro (KEWR/KLGA/KJFK/KTEB) TAF Uncertainty...

Amendments likely today with the changing of flight categories and 
onset of gusts. MVFR or lower may develop earlier than forecast.

.OUTLOOK FOR 12Z THURSDAY THROUGH SUNDAY...

Thursday: Conditions improve to VFR early. Gusty WNW winds 
developing in the afternoon, increasing to 15-20 kt G25-35 kt. A
few gusts to around 40 kt possible at night. 

Friday: VFR. W winds G25-30kt.

Saturday: VFR with W winds G15-20kt possible.

Sunday: VFR with NW/W winds.

Detailed information, including hourly TAF wind component forecasts, 
can be found at: https:/www.weather.gov/zny/n90

&&

.MARINE...
Headlines remain unchanged with the latest forecast for today
and tonight. A southerly flow will strengthen today and peak 
this evening and overnight. A Gale Warning remains in effect on 
the ocean waters, NY Harbor and South Shore Bays starting at 6 
AM. SCA are in effect elsewhere. Peak wind gusts tonight over 
the Gale Warning areas will be around 40 knots. On the SCA 
areas, peak gusts will be just below gale criteria (30 to 33 
knots). There is potential for some waters to be upgraded to a 
Gale Warning later today depending on observations and new model
guidance. With the strong winds, seas over the ocean could 
reach 12 feet, with waves on the LI Sound reaching 4-5 feet.

There will be a lull in the action on Thursday, when winds fall 
below SCA criteria, but 5+ foot waves linger on the ocean. By 
Thursday night, a northwest flow picks up and we likely see a return 
on Gale conditions. These gusts will subside on Friday.

Sub-SCA conditions on the non-ocean waters for Friday night, but 
advisory thresholds will probably still be met on the ocean as winds 
and seas take longer to subside. Sub-advisory conditions will be 
likely for the upcoming weekend, but winds and seas on the ocean 
could be close to criteria at times. The next chance for SCA 
conditions on the ocean won't return until late Monday afternoon or 
Monday night.

&&

.HYDROLOGY...
A frontal system impacting the region today and tonight will likely 
bring a total of 1 to 1.5 inches of rain, with locally higher 
amounts possible. The higher totals are expected inland. Rainfall 
rates could approach 1/2 inch per hour in spots at the time of 
heaviest rainfall, which could lead to nuisance urban and poor 
drainage flooding.

No hydrological impacts are expected Thursday through early next 
week.

&&

.TIDES/COASTAL FLOODING...
Astronomical tides will remain low through the end of the week. 
Intensifying southerly flow ahead of a strong storm system will 
increase tide levels during tonight night/early Thursday 
morning high tide. Surge of 1.5 to 3 ft is needed to reach minor
flooding benchmarks. The strongest winds may actually occur 
before high tide, limiting the surge somewhat during high tide. 
Most locations should remain at or below action stage. However, 
some of the most vulnerable locations across the south shore 
back bays and western Sound could touch minor flooding 
benchmarks. 

Large breaking waves 8-10 ft are forecast late Wednesday into
Wednesday night along the oceanfront, with beach flooding and
erosion possible.

&&

.OKX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CT...None.
NY...None.
NJ...None.
MARINE...Small Craft Advisory until 4 AM EST Thursday for ANZ331-332-
     335-340.
     Gale Watch from Thursday evening through Friday afternoon for 
     ANZ331-332-335-338-340-345-350-353-355.
     Gale Warning until 10 PM EST this evening for ANZ338.
     Gale Warning until 4 AM EST Thursday for ANZ345-350-353-355.

&&

$$

SYNOPSIS...BC/JT
NEAR TERM...JT
SHORT TERM...JT
LONG TERM...BC
AVIATION...BC
MARINE...BC/JT
HYDROLOGY...BC/JT
TIDES/COASTAL FLOODING...
