078 
FXUS61 KOKX 301917
AFDOKX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service New York NY
317 PM EDT Fri May 30 2025

.SYNOPSIS...
Low pressure will move across the region tonight, followed by a cold 
frontal passage Saturday afternoon and evening. A surface trough 
moves through Sunday evening. High pressure then gradually builds in 
and remains in control through mid-week, with a few more weak 
surface troughs swinging through early in the week. A cold front 
looks to move through sometime Thursday or Friday.

&&

.NEAR TERM /UNTIL 6 AM SATURDAY MORNING/...
A weak warm front remains north of NYC, extending from NJ into 
the Lower Hudson Valley. A few showers have developed along this
boundary. The showers are generally light to locally moderate. 
The latest 12z CAMs are indicating showers will be possible 
along this boundary through the remainder of afternoon and into 
the early evening hours.

A stronger, more significant, area of low pressure is then expected 
to approach this evening and pass over the region overnight before 
lifting into New England on Saturday. Will maintain chance POPs 
ahead of this low, however after 00z, POPS will quickly increase 
with the arrival of the rain tonight. Overall, not too much change 
in the overall track of the low, with the expected track near or 
slightly east of NYC. 

The heaviest axis if QPF is expected to remain west of NYC, mainly 
across portions of New Jersey and extending up into the Lower Hudson 
Valley. With ample forcing, some instability and PWATS around the 
90th percentile, this area will see the greatest threat of 
flooding. As a result, have gone ahead and issued a flood watch 
for NE NJ and the Lower Hudson Valley. The flood watch will be 
in effect for tonight into Saturday morning. Rainfall amounts 
are generally expected to range between 1 and 2 inches, however 
amounts as high as 3+ inches will be possible across the watch 
area. In addition, rainfall rates could reach 1 to 2 inches per 
hour in the heaviest and most persistent rain. 

Lows tonight will fall into the 50s. 

&&

.SHORT TERM /6 AM SATURDAY MORNING THROUGH SATURDAY NIGHT/...
Low pressure will continues to move northward into New England 
Saturday morning. With the low tracking northward, POPs will 
gradually diminish, however not completely end with a large upper 
trough over the area. We should see a period in the morning where 
some drier air works into the region, however by afternoon, a mid-
level shortwave and associated frontal boundary moves into the 
region. This should increase POPs once again bringing another round 
of showers and thunderstorms to part of the area. 

Any thunderstorms will bring the potential for heavy downpours. 

Once this shortwave/surface front pushes east, expect drier air to 
move back into the area with drier conditions expected for Saturday 
night. 

Highs on Saturday will be in the upper 60s and lower 70s, with 
Saturday night temperatures falling into the upper 40s and lower 
50s. 

&&

.LONG TERM /SUNDAY THROUGH FRIDAY/...
By the start of the long term period a broad upper level low will be 
spinning over eastern Canada along with a departing and weakening 
surface low. Troughing in the mid and upper levels remains over the 
northeast through early next week with several shortwaves rotating 
through. In turn, several weak surface troughs will swing through as 
high pressure tries to build in from the southwest. These features 
will not result in anything other than some cloud cover. High 
pressure that is centered to our south will slide offshore Tuesday 
night but remain in control through at least Wednesday. A cold front 
then looks to move through sometime Thursday or Friday resulting in 
some showers and thunderstorms.

There is some forecast uncertainty mainly for mid next week as the 
ECMWF has shown a cutoff low just to our south that lingers near the 
area in some past runs. This would result in cooler temperatures, 
more cloud cover and maybe even some precip. However the latest 12z 
run does push this feature farther east so the trend will have to be 
watched. Other guidance is showing this feature, but much farther 
east and not impacting us. General consensus is for ridging to build 
in and a deep S/SW flow to bring warm temperatures up into the 80s 
for mid week.

Overall stuck pretty close to the NBM other than cloud cover for mid 
week. Thinking was it was leaning too much towards the ECMWF cut off 
low situation. Temps will be a bit below normal on Sunday, normal 
Monday and then warm for mid week.

&&

.AVIATION /19Z FRIDAY THROUGH WEDNESDAY/...
A weak low pressure trough remains nearby today, then a low
pressure center passes through early Saturday morning.

VFR at NYC and Lower Hudson Valley terminals through early this 
evening. Across Long Island and coastal Connecticut terminals, 
varying from IFR to VFR. An isolated shower possible through this 
afternoon.

Conditions will begin lowering early this evening across Long
Island and southeast CT terminals with LIFR-IFR becoming likely
towards 23-00z. Elsewhere, MVFR-IFR should develop as rain
begins to overspread the terminals from southwest to northeast.
IFR is likely overnight with moderate to heavy rain. There is also a 
chance for a few thunderstorms, so will continue with a PROB30 for 
this potential overnight. Conditions should start improving Saturday 
morning as low pressure begins lifting northeast of the terminals, 
with VFR returning mid to late morning. Additional showers bringing 
MVFR conditions for Saturday afternoon with another PROB30 for TSTMs.

S-SSE winds at generally 10 kt or less this afternoon. The flow 
weakens briefly tonight before strengthening as winds shift more SE-
E and then NW early Saturday morning, backing more NW-W for much of 
Saturday with gusts 20-25 kt.

 ...NY Metro (KEWR/KLGA/KJFK/KTEB) TAF Uncertainty... 

Isolated shower possible through this afternoon.

Amendments expected for timing of lowering conditions, rain, and
possible thunderstorms tonight into early Saturday morning. 

.OUTLOOK FOR 18Z SATURDAY THROUGH WEDNESDAY... 

Saturday PM: Showers with a chance of thunderstorms. W winds G20-
25kt possible.

Sunday through Wednesday...VFR.

&&

.MARINE...
A weak gradient will result in sub-SCA conditions tonight. A 
building southerly swell is forecast to bring SCA conditions to 
ocean waters on Saturday afternoon lasting into Saturday night. In 
addition, a cold front will move across the area waters which could 
result in some wind gusts to near 25kt. A small craft advisory has 
been issued for the ocean waters for Saturday and Saturday night. 

SCA conditions linger on the ocean waters into Sunday with very 
marginal 20-25 kt gusts and 5 food seas. Thereafter, sub SCA 
conditions expected through at least mid-week. 5 to 6 foot seas 
could return late week ahead of an approaching cold front.


&&

.HYDROLOGY...
A flood watch has been issued for NE NJ and the Lower Hudson Valley 
for tonight into Saturday morning. Rainfall amounts tonight will 
range between 1 and 2 inches, with the potential for locally 3+ 
inches across the watch area. Rainfall rates across NJ and the Lower 
Hudson Valley may be as high as 1 to 2 inches per hour in the 
heaviest and most persistent rain. The heavy rain may result in 
isolated to scattered instances of flash flooding of urban and poor 
drainage areas, as well as a few quick responding rivers, creeks, 
and streams. WPC has an slight risk of excessive rainfall for
the watch area. 

There are no hydrologic concerns Sunday through the end of next
week.


&&

.TIDES/COASTAL FLOODING...
Water levels may just barely touch minor flood benchmarks possible 
in the most vulnerable spots with the high tide cycles tonight due 
the passage of a deepening low pressure system. No statements have 
been issued. No additional coastal flooding is expected this weekend 
into early next week. 

With a 5-7 ft southerly swell at 7-8 s, high rip current activity is 
expected on Saturday at the Suffolk County beaches. Swell height and 
period are a bit lower farther west, where a moderate risk is in 
effect. A moderate risk is expected for all beaches on Sunday with 
lowering swell and still no real onshore wind component.

&&

.OKX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CT...None.
NY...Flood Watch from 8 PM EDT this evening through Saturday 
     morning for NYZ067>071.
     High Risk for Rip Currents from Saturday morning through Saturday 
     evening for NYZ080-081.
NJ...Flood Watch from 8 PM EDT this evening through Saturday 
     morning for NJZ002-004-006-103>108.
MARINE...Small Craft Advisory from 6 AM Saturday to 6 AM EDT Sunday for 
     ANZ350-353-355.

&&

$$

SYNOPSIS...BC/JT
NEAR TERM...BC
SHORT TERM...BC
LONG TERM...JT
AVIATION...JC
MARINE...BC/JT
HYDROLOGY...BC/JT
TIDES/COASTAL FLOODING...
