276 
FXUS61 KOKX 051740
AFDOKX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service New York NY
140 PM EDT Thu Jun 5 2025

.SYNOPSIS...
A cold front will slowly approach the area thru Fri, and reach 
the area on Saturday. A series of frontal systems then affect
the region through Wednesday.

&&

.NEAR TERM /THROUGH TONIGHT/...
Forecast remains on track with only minor adjustments to the
temperature to account for the rapid surface heating taking 
place over the area this morning.

The upr ridge begins to break down today. As heights fall, there 
will be an opportunity for convection to trigger across the interior 
where CIN is eroded. The NAM and HRRR suggest a narrow corridor of 
tstm development, but keep this pcpn N of the cwa. It looks like 
initiation may be aided by terrain. Storm motion is extremely slow, 
so where storms do develop, not a lot of progression expected. 
Additional convection developing on outflow may be a wildcard 
and could be a reason activity gets into the cwa. NBM pops were 
used which keeps the cwa dry except for nwrn Orange into nrn
Putnam. It would not be surprising to see something get into 
nrn Fairfield/New Haven, but will allow for mesoscale analysis 
today before increasing pops. The hottest day of the week is 
still expected with may areas around 90 interior and wrn zones. 

After 00Z, initiation chances tank with the loss of daytime heating, 
and any ongoing cells should rain themselves out and the rest 
of the cwa should remain dry overnight. Low temps abv normal 
with the NBM followed.

&&

.SHORT TERM /FRIDAY THROUGH SATURDAY/...
Falling heights and upstream convection on Fri will likely 
trigger tstm development by aftn/eve across the cwa along a 
developing trof/outflow. This pseudo cold front should bring 
convection to the nwrn 1/2 of the cwa, meeting resistance as 
the activity outruns the upr support and reaches the more stable
cstl areas. Activity diminishes Fri ngt as the airmass 
stabilizes once again, then the main cold front gets here on Sat
with shwrs and tstms across the area. Pops for the entire cwa 
Sat. Heights will be lower, and cloud cover should also help to 
keep temps cooler and reduce the amount of sb instability. It 
should also feel humid with the onshore flow continuing. Highs 
per the NBM mainly 80s on Fri and 70s on Sat.

&&

.LONG TERM /SATURDAY NIGHT THROUGH WEDNESDAY/...
Models are in pretty good agreement with a weak h5 trough shifting 
through the area Sunday night with a deeper, but weakening trough 
axis moving in on Wednesday. Surface high pressure should dominate 
during Sunday, then a series weak surface boundaries will probably 
be nearby or pass through Sunday night through Monday night. Most of 
the time should be dry, but a 20-30% chance of showers exists 
through this time. A better chance of showers and possible 
thunderstorms will be during Tuesday and Tuesday night with the 
approach of aforementioned h5 trough, upper jet dynamics, and 
surface cold front. 60% chance of rainfall during the afternoon and 
evening. Thunderstorms could be strong given the potential CAPE and 
shear, but too early to have any confidence in severe wx potential.
Wednesday would then be dry in the morning with high pressure 
building in behind the departing cold front. Cannot rule out an 
afternoon shower with the h5 trough shifting in. NBM looked good for 
temperatures through the long term.

&&

.AVIATION /18Z THURSDAY THROUGH TUESDAY/...
High pressure remains offshore into this evening, while a cold front 
slowly approaches tonight into Friday.

VFR conditions mainly prevail through the TAF period. Can't 
completely rule out a shower or thunderstorm late this afternoon at 
KSWF as well as a shower tonight, but confidence remains too low to 
include in TAF. Possible brief MVFR/IFR well east of NYC terminals 
towards KGON early Friday morning in stratus/fog.

SW winds around 10kt through late afternoon, but a little stronger 
for KLGA and KJFK closer to 12-13kt at times. Winds then become 
lighter this evening, veering more SW. Stronger southerly sea 
breezes are anticipated and develop earlier on Friday.

 ...NY Metro (KEWR/KLGA/KJFK/KTEB) TAF Uncertainty... 

Sea breeze meanders within a few miles of KEWR and KTEB during this 
afternoon - winds could potentially prevail SW, SE or vary between 
the two directions at times until 21-22z.

.OUTLOOK FOR 18Z FRIDAY THROUGH TUESDAY... 

Friday afternoon: Mainly VFR, with the chance of showers/tstms 
potentially resulting in brief MVFR/IFR for NYC terminals and points 
north and west later in the afternoon. 

Friday night: Pockets of MVFR/IFR with chance of showers/tstms. 

Saturday: Possible MVFR/IFR with showers likely. Chance of tstms. 
Patchy fog early Saturday.

Sunday: Mainly VFR during the day, with sub-VFR possible at night in 
showers and low clouds.

Monday: Mostly VFR, with pockets of sub-VFR possible in showers.

Tuesday: Sub-VFR likely in showers.

Detailed information, including hourly TAF wind component forecasts, 
can be found at: https:/www.weather.gov/zny/n90

&&

.MARINE...
Winds and seas are expected to stay blw sca lvls thru the day 
Fri. Seas may approach 5 ft on the ocean late Fri ngt and Sat 
with a frontal sys impacting the waters. Seas subside below 5 
feet Saturday night, with sub-advisory conditions for the rest 
of the forecast period.

&&

.HYDROLOGY...
No widespread hydrologic impacts are expected thru Sat, although 
tstms could produce locally hvy rain Fri and possibly Sat.

Showers and thunderstorms Tuesday into Tuesday night may produce at 
least minor nuisance flooding. Low confidence at this time regarding 
potential impacts this far ahead in time.

&&

.TIDES/COASTAL FLOODING...
There is a moderate rip current risk thru Fri with waves
generally in the 2-3 ft range but winds mainly aob 10kt.

&&

.OKX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CT...Air Quality Alert until 11 PM EDT this evening for CTZ005>012.
NY...Air Quality Alert until 11 PM EDT this evening for NYZ067>075-
     078>081-176>179.
NJ...Air Quality Alert until 11 PM EDT this evening for NJZ002-004-
     006-103>108.
MARINE...None.

&&

$$

SYNOPSIS...JMC/JC
NEAR TERM...JMC/MW
SHORT TERM...JMC
LONG TERM...JC
AVIATION...JE
MARINE...JMC/JC
HYDROLOGY...JMC/JC
TIDES/COASTAL FLOODING...
