701 
FXUS61 KOKX 272043
AFDOKX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service New York NY
343 PM EST Mon Jan 27 2025

.SYNOPSIS...
Strong low pressure moves across southeast Canada tonight,
dragging a cold front through Tuesday morning. Another clipper 
low passes through Tuesday night into Wednesday. High pressure 
gradually builds in from the west through Thursday, and moves 
offshore Thursday night. Low pressure may impact the region 
Friday through Sunday. High pressure builds to the north late 
Sunday before another frontal system impacts the area Monday.

&&

.NEAR TERM /THROUGH TUESDAY/...
A strong low pressure moving across southeast Canada will
send a cold front towards the region tonight. The system will 
be accompanied by a potent middle level vortmax that dives 
southeastward across the Great Lakes tonight and then New 
England Tuesday morning. 

Low level winds will strengthen ahead of the front tonight,
40-60 kt at 925 mb. The NAM continues to be a bit stronger 
closer to 950 mb, but there will likely be an inversion 
preventing the strongest winds from reaching the surface. Still 
anticipate gusts remaining below Advisory levels tonight with 
the strongest occurring across eastern Long Island and 
potentially towards southeast Connecticut, around 40 mph. 
Otherwise, gusts should generally range from 25-35 mph. 

The other concern for tonight into Tuesday morning revolves
around potential for snow showers. Guidance has come into much 
better agreement that any precipitation will hold off until 
after day break Tuesday morning. Have gone with a dry forecast 
for Monday night. The atmosphere is quite dry and the most 
substantial lift associated vortmax looks to pass well to our 
north. There will be a line of snow squall/snow showers to our 
north west Monday night. This activity will weaken considerably 
as it enters the interior and should continue diminishing as it 
reaches the coast. Will continue with a slight chance PoP for a 
snow shower. However, not anticipating any significant impacts 
with any snow shower. A few spots could see quick dusting, but 
this looks isolated. The convective activity could also help 
bring down a few isolated stronger gusts to 45 mph due to the 
lingering low level dry air. 

The front and any lingering snow showers push offshore by
late morning. Some stratocu may linger into the afternoon, but 
some sun is anticipated. High temperatures should be a few 
degrees below normal in the lower 30s inland and middle 30s 
closer to the coast. Gusty NW winds are likely in the morning, 
25-35 mph, before settling to around 25 mph in the afternoon.

&&

.SHORT TERM /TUESDAY NIGHT THROUGH WEDNESDAY/...
Upper troughing will remain over the northeast Tuesday night
into Wednesday. Another shortwave, associated vort max, and 
clipper low approach Tuesday night. This will help send a warm 
front towards the area by early Wednesday morning. Warm 
advection may lead to an area of light snow along and ahead of 
the front. There is some uncertainty on the exact location of 
the light snow, but current trends favor portions of the 
interior and Southern Connecticut. The snow should be light, but
may bring an accumulation up to an inch, especially interior 
CT. The current trends have the majority of the snow ending by 
day break Wednesday. 

The Clipper low passes to the east Wednesday morning with its 
trailing cold front moving through in the afternoon and early 
evening. Ahead of the cold front, temperatures should be able to 
rise into the lower 40s inland and middle 40s closer to the coast 
with a breezy westerly flow. There may be some rain showers or snow 
showers late in the day with the cold front passage. At this time, 
temperatures look marginal for any impact from the potential snow 
showers. 

&&

.LONG TERM /WEDNESDAY NIGHT THROUGH MONDAY/...
A developing nearly zonal flow Wednesday night, and continuing
into the beginning of next week, will lead to a progressive and
active long term period as system track quickly across the 
region. And with this progressive flow, differences in the 
global guidance increase, especially for Friday and into the 
beginning of next week. While the deterministic NBM was used, 
and have probabilities of precipitation through the upcoming 
weekend, with the progressive flow, much of the weekend may end 
up dry. There are also differences in the track of systems which
will have an impact on precipitation types. While still have a 
rain/snow mix, going to rain, Thursday night into Friday trends 
have been for the low to track either farther to the north of 
further south, which will lead to more rain, or potentially a 
dry forecast by Saturday. Overall, very low confidence in the 
forecast with the timing and placement of systems for the 
upcoming weekend.

&&

.AVIATION /21Z MONDAY THROUGH SATURDAY/...
A cold front approaches tonight and moves across the area
on Tuesday.

VFR. W-SW winds around 15kt will gust to around 25kt this
afternoon into the evening. The gusts are forecast to continue
through the overnight, however, can not rule out the gusts 
subsiding for a few hours. Winds become more W-NW Tuesday
morning with speeds around 20kt, with gusts 30-32kt.

LLWS from 00Z to 09Z tonight at 2 kft from the SW at 50 kt.

     NY Metro (KEWR/KLGA/KJFK/KTEB) TAF Uncertainty...

Gusts may be occasionally higher than forecast. 

.OUTLOOK FOR 18Z TUESDAY THROUGH SATURDAY...

Tuesday afternoon: Mainly VFR. WNW 15-25 kt, gusts around 30 
kt, with chc 35 kt along the coast. Winds subside PM. 

Wednesday: Chance of MVFR or lower in light snow, especially
across the northern terminals. WSW gusts around 25 kt.

Thursday: VFR. NW gusts 20-25 kt Thursday.

Friday and Saturday: Sub-VFR in rain. 

Detailed information, including hourly TAF wind component forecasts, 
can be found at: https:/www.weather.gov/zny/n90

&&

.MARINE...
Gale conditions are expected to develop on the ocean, LI
Bays, and central and eastern LI Sound tonight with gusts 35
to 40 kt. These winds will likely linger into Tuesday morning 
before diminishing to SCA levels early Tuesday afternoon. The 
Gale Warning is in effect through 18z Tuesday. On the western LI
sound and NY Harbor, winds should remain below gale force with 
an SCA through Tuesday afternoon. Given the strong winds, seas 
on the ocean likely reach 7 to 10 feet, with waves on the Sound 
reaching 4 to 6 feet. Winds and sea briefly lower below SCA 
criteria Tuesday night before increasing again Wednesday.

In the wake of a clipper system and a cold frontal passage
Wednesday night, a strong and gusty west to northwest flow will
be across the forecast waters, with gale gusts likely on the 
ocean waters, and small craft conditions on the non ocean 
waters. With a weakening pressure gradient as high pressure 
builds in Thursday conditions fall below SCA levels on the non 
ocean waters Thursday morning, and on the ocean waters Thursday 
afternoon. With another frontal system impacting the waters late
Thursday night into the weekend, after a brief lull late 
Thursday, SCA conditions will be possible on the ocean Thursday 
night into Friday night as another frontal system impacts the 
region. Marginal SCA conditions may continue on the eastern 
ocean waters Saturday into Saturday night.

&&

.HYDROLOGY...
There are no hydrologic concerns through the weekend.

&&

.OKX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CT...None.
NY...None.
NJ...None.
MARINE...Gale Warning until 1 PM EST Tuesday for ANZ331-332-340-345-350-
     353-355.
     Small Craft Advisory until 6 PM EST Tuesday for ANZ335-338.

&&

$$

SYNOPSIS...DS/MET
NEAR TERM...DS
SHORT TERM...DS
LONG TERM...MET
AVIATION...BC
MARINE...DS/MET
HYDROLOGY...DS/MET
