376 
FXUS61 KOKX 202059
AFDOKX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service New York NY
359 PM EST Thu Feb 20 2025

.SYNOPSIS...
As intensifying offshore low pressure moves farther out to sea 
tonight, a weak low pressure trough will move across. Strong
high pressure over the Plains states will then move east to the
Mid Atlantic coast by Saturday, and remain in control into
Monday. Low pressure will pass to the north Monday night into
Tuesday, followed by building high pressure on Wednesday. 
Another low may impact the area late next week. 

&&

.NEAR TERM /UNTIL 6 AM FRIDAY MORNING/...
As an upper low passes just south and an associated weak sfc 
trough moves through, light snow showers that have already 
moved into NYC, NE NJ and parts of the lower Hudson Valley
should overspread Long Island. Forecast carries likely PoP for
those areas, and also have chance PoP into parts of southern CT
mainly over Fairfield County and toward the coast. QPF remains
light, less than 1/10 inch in general, and corresponding
snowfall amts should be mostly under an inch. Can't rule out an
isolated 1 inch total in the higher elevations north/west of NYC
and across parts of western Long Island where forcing with the 
upper level low will be stronger. Timing of this activity could 
pose some travel impacts and slick spots to the PM rush. Still, 
some locales may not see any snow whatsoever, or just a few 
flurries, largely staying mainly dry and overcast instead, 
especially into interior southern CT. 

Clouds thin out regardless overnight as the upper low shifts 
offshore and drier air works in. NW flow increases tonight as
the pressure gradient tightens between the offshore low and the
strong inland high, which should preclude decoupling. Low temps
range from the mid teens inland, to either side of 20 in NYC and
along the coast, with wind chills in the single digits most
places, and as low as 0 in spots well inland. 

&&

.SHORT TERM /6 AM FRIDAY MORNING THROUGH SATURDAY/...
Under mostly clear skies, blustery NW flow will continue Fri 
into Fri night between the offshore low and the high to the west
at it builds toward the Mid Atlantic coast. Gusts 30-35 mph and
an occasional gust up to 40 mph in the NYC metro area expected 
Fri afternoon. Temps should reach the lower/mid 30s by 
afternoon. 

Flow relaxes into Friday night as the high builds closer, and 
mostly clear skies prevail as temperatures fall into the teens
and lower 20s.

Winds relax by daytime Sat and back WSW in the afternoon as the
high reaches the Mid Atlantic coast. Another mostly sunny day
expected, with highs 35-40. 

&&

.LONG TERM /SATURDAY NIGHT THROUGH THURSDAY/...
There have been no significant changes to the long term forecast. 

Key Points:

* A warming trend will continue Sunday through the middle of
  next week, with mid to upper 40s possible both Tuesday and 
  Wednesday. Some locations could reach 50 degrees in metro NE 
  NJ and NYC.

* Mainly dry conditions are expected through mid week. 

* A more organized low pressure system may impact the area late
  next week.

The mean upper trough axis will remain offshore the second half
of the upcoming weekend with a NW flow remaining aloft. The 
orientation of the trough begins to shift back to the west early
next week as a few shortwaves pass across the Great Lakes and 
northeast. These appear moisture starved and may only bring an 
increase in clouds Monday into Tuesday. Model consensus PoPs 
remain at slight chance (20%) and this seems reasonable given 
the progressive flow, limited moisture, and weak lift. 

A progressive ridge the follows on Wednesday behind the
departing shortwave. This will briefly bring a return to high 
pressure. A more amplified upper trough may follow late next 
week. The modeling is in good agreement on the larger scale 
pattern, but differ significantly with the track of an 
associated low pressure. This appears to be the next system to 
bring a chance of widespread precipitation to the area. Details 
on its track and associated precipitation types and amounts are 
of lower confidence given this is a week out. Followed the 
NBM/model consensus, which is leaning towards a warmer solution 
yielding mostly plain rain. Will follow the NBM, but cap precip 
probabilities off at chance for now since this is a week out and
the timing could easily change in subsequent forecast cycles.

&&

.AVIATION /21Z THURSDAY THROUGH TUESDAY/...
An upper level low and surface trough will cross the area 
tonight. High pressure builds in Friday.

VFR with a period of MVFR and possibly IFR in light snow 
showers this evening. Tempo groups included for the lower 
conditions in snow especially for city terminals. There is some 
timing uncertainty with the onset and northeast extent given 
drier air across CT. Up to a half inch of snow is possible.

NW flow 10-15G20 kt is expected through the remainder of the 
forecast. More gusts develop later this evening, and may be 
more occasional until toward 00Z. Winds and gusts increase 
overnight, with occasional gusts 30-35 kt and continue into
Friday.

 ...NY Metro (KEWR/KLGA/KJFK/KTEB) TAF Uncertainty...

Amendments for timing of snow and lowering conditions this 
evening. Occasional gusts late this evening and overnight may
exceed 30 kt. 

.OUTLOOK FOR 12Z FRIDAY THROUGH TUESDAY...

Friday: VFR. NW winds G25 kt.

Saturday and Sunday: VFR. 

Monday and Tuesday...Mainly VFR.

Detailed information, including hourly TAF wind component
forecasts, can be found at: https:/www.weather.gov/zny/n90

&&

.MARINE...
SCA cond about to begin on NY Harbor and the western ocean
waters should spread to all waters this evening an continue on
all waters through daytime Fri. A few gusts up to 35 kt may be 
possible on the outer ocean waters late this evening and 
overnight as ocean seas build to 5-7 ft. 

Winds slowly diminish Fri night, first by evening on the western
sound, then on NY Harbor and the south shore bays by midnight 
Fri night. 

Other than perhaps a few lingering 5-footers on the outer ern 
ocean waters early Sat AM, conditions will likely remain below 
SCA levels from Sat through Tue as a weak pressure gradient 
settles over the waters. 

&&

.HYDROLOGY...
No hydrologic impacts expected.

&&

.OKX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CT...None.
NY...None.
NJ...None.
MARINE...Small Craft Advisory until 6 AM EST Saturday for ANZ331-332-
     340-350-353-355.
     Small Craft Advisory until 6 PM EST Friday for ANZ335.
     Small Craft Advisory until midnight EST Friday night for 
     ANZ338-345.

&&

$$

SYNOPSIS...BG/DS
NEAR TERM...BG
SHORT TERM...BG
LONG TERM...DS
AVIATION...IRD
MARINE...BG/DS
HYDROLOGY...BG/DS
