359 
FXUS61 KOKX 240840
AFDOKX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service New York NY
440 AM EDT Thu Jul 24 2025

.SYNOPSIS...
High pressure remains offshore through today and moves farther 
offshore tonight into Friday. A cold front moves through the 
area late Friday into Friday evening. High pressure builds back 
into the area Friday night into Saturday. A frontal system 
begins to impact the area Saturday night, and moves across the 
area on Sunday. High pressure then builds in for Monday and 
Tuesday. A cold front moves across the region mid-week.

&&

.NEAR TERM /UNTIL 6 PM THIS EVENING/...
Offshore high pressure remains in control today with dry
weather, and temperatures rising to a few degrees above normal.
Also, with a return flow dew points will be increasing through
the day.

&&

.SHORT TERM /6 PM THIS EVENING THROUGH SATURDAY NIGHT/...
Key points...

* A Heat Warning has been issued for much of Northeastern New
  Jersey for Friday. And Heat Advisories remain in effect for
  much of the remainder of the region Friday.

* Isolated to scattered severe thunderstorms possible Friday
  afternoon, with damaging wind gusts the primary threat.

Offshore high pressure moves farther offshore tonight as the
upper ridge weakens with the approach of a longwave trough
moving into eastern Canada and into upstate New York and
Northern New England. The upper flow is nearly zonal across the
northern tier of the country allowing for a progressive flow. 
Return flow continue into Friday with increased heat and 
humidity. The Heat Watch for much of Northeastern New Jersey 
was converted to an Extreme Heat Warning for Friday with heat 
indices still forecast to peak at 105 to around 107. And the 
Heat Advisory remains in effect for all but Southern New London 
County, and Southeastern Suffolk County. Across the advisory 
heat indices peak at 100 to 104. There still is the chance that 
warning criteria will not be met as clouds will be increasing 
ahead of an approaching cold front that moves through the 
region Friday afternoon, and south of the area Friday evening. 
Also, with the elevated heat record high temperatures may be 
tied or broken at the climate sites. See the climate section for
details.

There will be a chance of showers and thunderstorms with the
passage of the cold front Friday, and the area remains in a
marginal risk for isolated severe storms, with damaging wind
gusts the primary threat. The best forcing will be to the north
of the area as shortwave energy rotates through the longwave
upper trough. CAPE increases to 500 to around 1000 J/kg Friday
afternoon, with shear of 20 to 30 kt, along with surface
instability. Inverted V soundings Friday afternoon indicate the
potential for strong to damaging wind gusts. The flood threat 
is minimal as the storms are forecast to be rather quick moving,
at 25 to 30 mph, with training not expected. Any of the storms 
could produce briefly heavy rainfall and any flood threat will 
be isolated. And the area is not in an excessive outlook for 
Friday.

Dry weather returns Friday evening into Saturday as high
pressure builds to the north. A frontal system begins to
approach late Saturday night with a chance of showers and 
thunderstorms.

&&

.LONG TERM /SUNDAY THROUGH WEDNESDAY/...
The NBM was followed through the long term with just a few 
cosmetic changes.

Key Points:

* Showers and thunderstorms expected on Sunday with the passage of a 
  cold front. Some thunderstorms will be capable of gusty winds and 
  heavy rainfall. 

* Dry but hot conditions expected Monday and Tuesday, with Tuesday 
  being the warmest day of the week. Temperatures Tuesday will be in 
  the lower and middle 90s with the potential for heat index values 
  exceeding 100 in spots. Heat headlines may be needed Monday and 
  Tuesday with the potential for Wednesday. 

* A cold front moves across the area mid-week. This will end the
  2-3 days of hot and humid conditions.

&&

.AVIATION /09Z THURSDAY THROUGH MONDAY/...
High pressure remains over the area terminals. 

VFR.

Southerly winds become light SW to light and variable through 
12Z. Winds become SSW after 12Z and increase to 10-15kt with 
gusts 20-25kt from late morning through early evening. Winds
diminish after 00z.

 ...NY Metro (KEWR/KLGA/KJFK/KTEB) TAF Uncertainty...

Can not rule out a few occasional guts over 25kt. Timing of 
gusts may be +/- 1 hour from TAF.

.OUTLOOK FOR 06Z FRIDAY THROUGH MONDAY... 

Friday: VFR likely through morning, possibly followed by periods of 
sub VFR in showers and thunderstorms for the afternoon and
evening. Southwest winds G15-20kt.

Saturday: VFR with widely scattered showers and thunderstorms 
during the afternoon and at night possible.

Sunday: Mainly VFR. MVFR or lower possible in any showers or
thunderstorms.

Monday: Mainly VFR.

Detailed information, including hourly TAF wind component 
forecasts, can be found at: https:/www.weather.gov/zny/n90

&&

.MARINE...
Winds and seas remain below advisory levels across the forecast
waters today through Saturday night. However, wind gusts on the
ocean waters may briefly approach 25 kt early this evening. With
low confidence in occurrence, and short duration, have not
issued a Small Craft Advisory. Isolated severe thunderstorms are
possible ahead of a cold front Friday, which may produce wind
gusts in excess of 35 kt.

Winds and seas are forecast to largely remain below Small Craft 
Advisory criteria Sunday through early next week.

&&

.HYDROLOGY...
Localized minor urban and poor drainage flooding is possible 
with isolated to scattered thunderstorm activity Friday
afternoon.

Showers and thunderstorms associated with a frontal system 
could produce locally heavy downpours on Sunday that result in 
nuisance flooding, but the overall flood threat appears low at 
this time.

&&

.TIDES/COASTAL FLOODING...
There is a moderate risk for the development of rip currents at
the ocean beaches today and Friday.

&&

.CLIMATE...
Daily record high temperatures maybe be tied or broken Friday 
July 25th. Here are the current records for the day...

EWR 99/2016 
BDR 93/2001 
NYC 97/1999 
LGA 97/1999 
JFK 93/2010 
ISP 94/1987

&&

.OKX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CT...Air Quality Alert from 11 AM this morning to 11 PM EDT this 
     evening for CTZ005>007.
     Heat Advisory from 11 AM to 8 PM EDT Friday for CTZ005>011.
NY...Heat Advisory from 11 AM to 8 PM EDT Friday for NYZ067>075-
     078>080-176>179.
NJ...Heat Advisory from 11 AM to 8 PM EDT Friday for NJZ002.
     Extreme Heat Warning from 11 AM to 8 PM EDT Friday for NJZ004-
     006-103>108.
MARINE...None.

&&

$$

SYNOPSIS...BC/MET
NEAR TERM...MET
SHORT TERM...MET
LONG TERM...
AVIATION...BC
MARINE...BC/MET
HYDROLOGY...BC/MET
TIDES/COASTAL FLOODING...
CLIMATE...
