173 
FXUS61 KOKX 130555
AFDOKX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service New York NY
155 AM EDT Tue May 13 2025

.SYNOPSIS...
A weak backdoor cold front moves across the region tonight as
high pressure builds southward off the New England coast. 
Meanwhile, an area of low pressure slowly approaches from the 
Mid-Atlantic Tuesday and Wednesday and passes nearby during 
Thursday. A warm front then moves through during Friday, 
followed by a cold front on Saturday into Saturday night. Weak 
high pressure will then be in place for Sunday and Monday with a
few weak cold fronts or troughs possibly passing through.

&&

.NEAR TERM /UNTIL 6 AM THIS MORNING/...
Increased the cloud coverage in the forecast. Mostly cloudy
conditions are expected through tonight with expansive cirrus
continuing to move across the entire region as detected by IR
satellite imagery. Some slight adjustments were made to 
temperatures and dewpoints. Min temperatures are the about the 
same as previously forecast.

Clouds gradually increase as a broad area of low pressure approaches 
from the south. Meanwhile, high pressure well north of the region 
gradually builds southeastward, forcing a back door cold front to 
approach from the northeast. With the low pressure system 
approaching from the south, some rain showers may develop after 
midnight, mainly across NE NJ and NYC. Will introduce some 
chance or slight chance POPs. Any showers should remain light in
intensity. The eastward progression of this band of scattered 
showers remains a bit uncertain as the showers will be running 
into the drier airmass from the high pressure offshore.

With increasing cloud cover, temperatures should remain somewhat 
mild, with lows only falling into the 50s to lower 60s in the NYC 
metro area.

&&

.SHORT TERM /6 AM THIS MORNING THROUGH 6 PM WEDNESDAY/...
A backdoor cold front continues to move into the area Tuesday 
morning and either moves through the entire area or stalls over the 
area as a stationary boundary. Meanwhile, the broad area of low 
pressure continues to spread precipitation into portions of the CWA. 
the best chances will be across the western half of the CWA,. 

There remains some uncertainty with just how far east the 
precipitation reaches. Some eastern areas may remain mostly dry 
during this timeframe. Cloudy skies should prevent temperatures from 
rising too much Tuesday with highs in the upper 60s to middle 70s 
for the northeasternmost areas. Tuesday night lows only fall into 
the middle and upper 50s.

&&

.LONG TERM /WEDNESDAY NIGHT THROUGH MONDAY/...
Models in good agreement with a closed h5 low opening up as it heads 
NE into the Great Lakes Region Wednesday into Wednesday night. 
Associated trough axis shifts through the forecast area during 
Thursday night. At the surface, weakening low pressure over the Mid-
Atlantic on Wednesday slowly approaches and passes over or nearby us 
at some point in the Thursday to Thursday night period. Rain will be 
possible at any given time during this period, however it appears 
that it will be most likely during the daytime Wednesday. This is 
when the strongest h8 theta-e advection and isentropic lift with the 
help of llj upward forcing interact with the deepest moisture. The 
magnitude of the moisture doesn't appear to be significantly 
anomalous, so hydrologic impacts are not anticipated at this time. 
Even the NBM probabilities of 6-hour rainfall being greater than a 
half inch through the period are very low.

Even with the strongest forcing and deepest moisture shifting away, 
rainfall is still likely during Wednesday night as the 
aforementioned weak low approaches. Indications are that the low 
weakens into a trough by the time of its closest approach, so PoPs 
are capped at chance (40-50% most locations) for Thursday, but went 
above NBM guidance considering the proximity of the trough as well 
as a shortwave and trough axis aloft shifting through.

A warm front then shifts through during Friday with with ridging 
aloft mitigating shower chances. A cold front follows for Saturday 
into Saturday night with additional showers and maybe a thunderstorm.

Uncertainty then increases for Sunday and Monday, stemming from 
global model disagreement on the placement of an upper low. There's 
general agreement that it remains to our north, but still cannot 
rule out a diurnally-driven shower both days as a surface trough and 
cyclonic flow aloft are potentially in the area.

&&

.AVIATION /06Z TUESDAY THROUGH SATURDAY/...
A weak cold front approaches from the north tonight and moves
through the forecast area Tuesday morning into the afternoon,
stalling near the metro terminals. At the same time, a weak area
of low pressure approaches from the south.

VFR conditions expected through much of the day Tuesday. MVFR 
chances increase from west to east thereafter for the rest of 
the TAF period. 

Some light rain is possible early Tuesday for NYC and Lower 
Hudson Valley terminals. Chances for rain increase for NYC and 
Lower Hudson Valley terminals Tuesday afternoon into start of 
Tuesday evening with MVFR chances also increasing, though MVFR
conditions are possible with any showers in the afternoon.
Conditions deteriorate to IFR by late Tuesday night for these
areas. To the east, expecting mainly dry conditions and VFR 
conditions to prevail through much of the afternoon, with MVFR 
or lower expected by overnight Tuesday.

Winds through the TAF period are around 10 kts or less. Wind
direction generally S to SE going into late tonight, with some 
variability for some terminals. The wind direction becomes 
generally more easterly Tuesday.

 ...NY Metro (KEWR/KLGA/KJFK/KTEB) TAF Uncertainty...

MVFR and IFR timing could be a few hours off from TAF.

.OUTLOOK FOR 00Z WEDNESDAY THROUGH SATURDAY...

Tuesday night through Wednesday night: Low stratus/fog with IFR
conditions at times. Periods of rain. Slight chance of
thunderstorms Wednesday afternoon into Wednesday night. E-SE 
winds G20kt possible on Wednesday, day into early evening.

Thursday: MVFR possible with a chance of showers.

Friday and Saturday: Mainly VFR, chance of MVFR and showers.
Slight chance of thunderstorms afternoon into early evening.

Detailed information, including hourly TAF wind component forecasts, 
can be found at: https:/www.weather.gov/zny/n90

&&

.MARINE...
Sub-SCA conditions are expected on all waters through Tuesday
night. Onshore flow will help build seas to 5-6 ft on the 
ocean waters during Wednesday along with gusts around 25 kt. 
Winds weaken Wednesday night, however a residual swell should 
keep seas at advisory levels through the night and into a 
portion of Thursday. Sub-advisory conditions then follow for 
Thursday nigh through Saturday with winds remaining at around 
10kt or less.

&&

.HYDROLOGY...
Rainfall from Tuesday afternoon through Wednesday night is expected 
to average around a half of an inch across the area. No hydrologic 
impacts are expected with this event, and no impacts are expected 
thereafter through Monday.

&&

.OKX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CT...None.
NY...None.
NJ...None.
MARINE...None.

&&

$$

SYNOPSIS...BC/JC
NEAR TERM...BC/JM
SHORT TERM...BC
LONG TERM...JC
AVIATION...JP
MARINE...BC/JC
HYDROLOGY...BC/JC
