583 
FXUS61 KOKX 131134
AFDOKX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service New York NY
734 AM EDT Thu Mar 13 2025

.SYNOPSIS...
High pressure remains over the Northeast retreats further out into 
the Atlantic through Friday. A warm front lifts through the region 
Saturday. A cold front approaches on Sunday and passes through late
at night into Monday morning. High pressure then follows for 
early next week.

&&

.NEAR TERM /UNTIL 6 PM THIS EVENING/...
High pressure north of the region gradually slides east today as 
weak low pressure passes south of the area. The high will keep 
conditions dry. However, with more clouds than sun for much of the 
area, and combined with an easterly flow, temperatures will be closer 
to normal for this time of year, in the upper 40s to around 50.

&&

.SHORT TERM /6 PM THIS EVENING THROUGH SATURDAY NIGHT/...
High pressure continues to slowly drift east off southeast Canada 
through Friday. Along with weak ridging aloft, conditions likely 
remain dry into Friday night. Thereafter, the high drifts farther 
out into the Atlantic as a warm front approaches from the south. A 
warm front approaches Friday night into Saturday morning and lifts 
north Saturday into Saturday night.

With more in the way of sun and winds shifting from the east to the 
southeast (albeit a light flow), Friday will see warmer temperatures 
as compared to Thursday. Expect highs in the middle to upper 50s 
away from the coast. Coastal areas will see highs in the upper 40s 
to lower around 50 thanks to the relatively cooler waters.

Continued light southeasterly flow ahead of the approaching warm 
front Friday night into Saturday morning will allow moisture to 
increase in the lower levels. Fog and drizzle is possible during 
this time frame. Fog should burn off mid to late Saturday morning. 

Warmer conditions can be expected for Friday and Saturday with highs 
in the 50s.

&&

.LONG TERM /SUNDAY THROUGH WEDNESDAY/...
Amplified 500mb trough approaches on Sunday with its axis shifting 
through the forecast area during Monday. Associated cold front 
approaches during the day Sunday and passes through during Sunday 
night into Monday. This will bring showers, focused mostly during 
the time frame of Sunday afternoon and night, with areas east of the 
city likely still with showers Monday morning. CAPE is limited and 
will leave out the mention of thunder for the time being. Areas west 
of the Hudson would more likely have a chance of thunder, perhaps in 
the evening hours with any lingering instability from daytime 
heating and deep lift increasing. Rain could be heavy at times 
nevertheless with PWATs increasing to around 1.50 inches and 
enhanced lift with a low level jet and right-entrance of a jet 
streak aloft. See the hydrology section below for potential impacts 
from the rain.

The other thing to keep an eye on during Sunday night is the 
potential for strong winds. 925mb jet of at least 60-70kt currently 
progged to shift through. Area waters are still cold, but with 
surface temps at least in the 50s, the low level inversion might not 
be as strong as it usually is during the cold season and allow for 
strong winds to mix down from aloft. Chance of at least advisory 
levels winds exists, primarily from around the city to coastal 
locations eastward.

High pressure builds in behind the system Monday afternoon and keeps 
us dry through Wednesday. High temperatures through the long term 
will be above normal.

&&

.AVIATION /12Z THURSDAY THROUGH MONDAY/...
A weak wave of low pressure lingers nearby to the south today.

VFR during the daytime, then MVFR cigs possible mainly tonight
and mainly from KJFK on east tonight with the better chances at
KISP/KGON. Tempo MVFR will however be possible during the
daytime hours for the city terminals and KISP.

ENE winds 10-15kt for the coastal terminals, but closer to 10kt
inland. Winds back toward NE this evening, mostly around 10kt.

 ...NY Metro (KEWR/KLGA/KJFK/KTEB) TAF Uncertainty...

Occasional gusts up to around 20kt for KJFK/KLGA through the
daytime hours. Tempo MVFR cigs possible after 15-16z at
KJFK/KEWR. A lower chance of Tempo MVFR cigs for KLGA/KTEB after
18z. 

.OUTLOOK FOR 12Z FRIDAY THROUGH MONDAY...

Friday: Chance of MVFR in the morning, otherwise VFR.

Saturday: MVFR possible. Slight chance of rain showers. S gusts 20-
30kt at night. 

Sunday: MVFR with showers and LLWS mainly in the afternoon. Patchy 
sub VFR possible with chance of showers. S winds gust 25-35kt.

Sunday night: MVFR/IFR in rain/showers. LLWS and S winds gust 30-
40kt. Winds becoming SW and diminishing late.

Monday: Sub VFR possible in AM, otherwise becoming VFR. 

Detailed information, including hourly TAF wind component forecasts, 
can be found at: https:/www.weather.gov/zny/n90

&&

.MARINE...
Seas on the ocean will remain between 4-6 ft through tonight, mainly 
due to an onshore flow and a swell, and possibly through a good
portion of Friday morning. The SCA may have to be extended into
Friday morning. 

Sub- advisory conditions then expected through Friday night for
all waters, before increasing once again late Saturday with 
strengthening southerly flow. SCA conditions return by Sunday 
with 25 to 30 kt gusts developing on all waters.

Good chance of gales on all waters Sunday and Sunday night with a 
tight pressure gradient and strong low level jet in association with 
a cold front passing through during Sunday night. SCA conds then 
remain on the ocean waters for Monday, mainly due to lingering
swell.

&&

.HYDROLOGY...
There is the potential for 1-2 inches of rainfall Sunday into 
Monday, with most of this falling from late day Sunday through 
Sunday night/early Monday morning. Heavy downpours will be possible 
during this time with a chance of minor urban/poor drainage 
flooding.

&&

.OKX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CT...None.
NY...None.
NJ...None.
MARINE...Small Craft Advisory until 6 AM EDT Friday for ANZ350-353-355.

&&

$$

SYNOPSIS...JC/JP
NEAR TERM...JP
SHORT TERM...JP
LONG TERM...JC
AVIATION...JC
MARINE...JC/JP
HYDROLOGY...JC/JP
