047 
FXUS61 KOKX 080531
AFDOKX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service New York NY
131 AM EDT Sun Jun 8 2025

.SYNOPSIS...
A cold front pushes south and east overnight. Weak high 
pressure then briefly follows for Sunday, followed by an area of
low pressure passing to the south and east Sunday night into 
Monday. A slow moving frontal system will work across the area 
Tuesday into Tuesday night. High pressure returns Wednesday and 
remains near the region through Friday. Another frontal system 
may affect the region late Friday into the weekend.

&&

.NEAR TERM /UNTIL 6 AM THIS MORNING/...
A drier airmass advects into the region overnight on north to 
northeast winds in the wake of a cold front. This should help 
push dense fog along further southeast initially, but with 
winds lightening overnight, could have some patchy fog 
development overnight, especially where heavy rain occurred
earlier.

Somewhat less muggy conditions overnight, with lower tds and 
temps dropping into the upper 50s across interior and LI pine 
barrens, and lower 60s elsewhere.

&&

.SHORT TERM /6 AM THIS MORNING THROUGH MONDAY NIGHT/...
Weak high pressure builds across the area on Sunday, but then 
weakens with the approach of a broad area of low pressure 
approaching from the south and west. It should remain dry for most 
of the day with rain chances increasing late in the afternoon over 
the western parts of the forecast area. 

Conditions should be dry for most of the day on Monday, then chances 
increase Monday night as a cold front moves closer to the area.

Temperatures on Sunday will be in the low to mid 70s with nighttime 
lows in the upper 50s to low 60s. Temperatures will be a few degrees 
cooler on Monday with highs in the upper 60s to low 70s.

&&

.LONG TERM /TUESDAY THROUGH SATURDAY/...
Great Lakes closed low drifts into southern Ontario on Tuesday and 
then shears NE through southern Quebec Tuesday Night into Wednesday 
ahead of next northern stream shortwave/closed moving east through 
southern Canada. Good model agreement in an associated trough axis 
approaching Tuesday/Tue eve and pivoting through late Tue night/Wed.

At the surface, a surface trough/cold front associated with the 
Great Lakes low, and southern surface wave tracking NE along the 
front will approach and cross the area on Tuesday. Large scale 
synoptic lift from approaching trough, NE shearing southern stream 
shortwave, and modest RRJ ULJ lift of a +1-1 1/2 std PWATs airmass 
will be sufficient for increasing shower activity from SW to NE Tues 
Am. Overall, basin average model QPF is light, but potential for 
locally heavy downpours and elevated thunder, particularly N&W of 
NYC with best coincidence of mid/upper forcing, weak elevated 
instability, orographic enhancement of E/SE low-level flow, and 
storm motion aligning with the slow moving frontal boundary. WPC Day 
4 marginal risk of excessive rainfall dropping into northern 
portions of the LoHud seems reasonable to start. Overall, best upper 
level forcing and instability seems to lag the surface features, 
minimizing a localized flash flood threat farther SE towards the 
coast. Strong to severe threat appears limited despite strong shear 
profiles, due to weak instability. Shower/thunderstorm activity 
should taper from W to E later Tue aft/early eve as the surface 
wave, trough axis/cold front slides through.

Thereafter, warming temp for Wed thru Fri, possibly Sat as region 
lies on southern edge of westerlies, with heights gradually rising 
under the influence of SE US ridging and high pressure sliding in 
from the West. Temps likely several degrees above seasonable Wed 
(upper 70s/lower 80s), and as much as 10 to 15 degrees above normal 
for Thu/Fri away from south coasts (mid to upper 80s), lower 80s for 
the south coast. Have blended in a slight bit of the NBM 50th with 
the NBM deterministic, since the NBM deterministic lies below the 
10th percentile of the NBM ensemble. Low probability (less than 30%) 
of exceeding 95F heat index across NYC/NJ metro an points N&W for 
Thu-Sat.

Next feature of note will be a combo of a northern stream shortwave 
approaching from Hudson Bay Friday Night into Saturday, and 
potential southern plains closed low partially shearing NE towards 
the area. This will bring potential for a a weak cold front/pre-
frontal trough to approach as early as late Friday, and subsequent 
cold front to approach/linger through Sat Night before pushing 
through. Inherently low predictability on these convectively 
enhanced shortwave interactions this far out, but low chance pops 
are warranted to address this threat.

&&

.AVIATION /06Z SUNDAY THROUGH THURSDAY/...
A cold front will continue to move south and east of the terminals 
overnight. The front stalls offshore and to the south during Sunday. 

Mainly VFR prevails overnight for the city terminals, however for 
eastern most terminals like KISP and KGON sub VFR conditions are 
likely at least for a time during the overnight with low stratus and 
fog. Low confidence remains in fcst for tonight and into Sunday with 
regard to whether low stratus and fog completely gets out of eastern 
most terminals. Also pockets of MVFR and IFR likely for KHPN and 
KSWF for a portion of the overnight with patchy fog. 

Another low confidence forecast Sunday with low clouds residing
nearby along and just off the coast and over the ocean, but 
most areas still expected to stay VFR for the first half of the 
day. Sub VFR conditions (mainly MVFR) is then expected to return
at some point Sunday afternoon, with low confidence in the 
timing of the arrival of sub VFR conditions. Confidence growing
for MVFR or lower conditions with rain and drizzle around and/or
after 00z Monday. 

Winds overnight will be NE and generally 5 to 10 kt, with some 
outlying terminals down to or just below 5 kt later in the 
overnight. The winds then become more E on Sunday at 8 to 13 kt.

 ...NY Metro (KEWR/KLGA/KJFK/KTEB) TAF Uncertainty... 

Amendments possible throughout the entire TAF period for changing 
flight categories, especially during Sunday afternoon and early 
Sunday evening.

.OUTLOOK FOR 00Z MONDAY THROUGH THURSDAY... 

Sunday night: Mainly sub VFR (MVFR or lower), with a chance of rain. 

Monday: Becoming VFR with light E flow.

Tuesday: MVFR or lower possible with shwrs and tstms. Varying winds 
with a frontal sys.

Wednesday - Thursday: VFR with W flow. 

Detailed information, including hourly TAF wind component forecasts, 
can be found at: https:/www.weather.gov/zny/n90

&&

.MARINE...
The dense fog advisory has been allowed to expire as improvement
from NW to SE has taken shape as a old front pushes offshore 
and a drier airmass has begun to advect over the waters.

Also, small craft advisories over the ocean waters has been 
allowed to expire, but the potential for a period of SCA on the 
ocean is expected to develop Sunday night into Monday on 
easterly winds. Conditions should gradually fall below SCA 
Monday.

Potential for 5 ft seas Tuesday night into Wednesday, mainly in S 
swells as a result of a slow moving frontal system. Marginal 
nearshore SCA gusts possible during the day Wed in offshore flow 
behind cold front. Seas should then fall below SCA conditions late 
Wednesday as high pressure builds towards the water, continuing thru 
Friday.

&&

.HYDROLOGY...
No hydrologic issues expected through Monday night. 

Showers and embedded thunderstorms Tuesday may produce a basin wide 
1/4 to 1/2" of rain. Localized 1+" amounts possible, particularly 
N&W of NYC, presenting a low and localized threat of flash flooding 
on Tuesday.

&&

.TIDES/COASTAL FLOODING...
A High Risk for Rip Currents continues through Sunday evening for 
all locations along the oceanfront.

SE swells remain at 3-4 ft on Sunday, mixed with a long period 
SE background swell and a building 2 to 3 ft E wind wave. This 
should maintain a moderate to high risk of rips with a west to 
east sweep of 3 to 4 ft, occasionally 5 ft breaking surf. An E 
to W longshore current will likely become favored in the 
afternoon.

A moderate to possibly high rip risk likely on Monday with 3-4 
ft ESE wind waves building, and a background of 1-2 ft SE/S 
swells. E to W longshore current would be favored.

&&

.OKX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CT...None.
NY...High Risk for Rip Currents through this evening for NYZ075-080-081-
     178-179.
NJ...None.
MARINE...None.

&&

$$

SYNOPSIS...20/NV
NEAR TERM...JE/20
SHORT TERM...20
LONG TERM...NV
AVIATION...BC
MARINE...20/NV
HYDROLOGY...20/NV
TIDES/COASTAL FLOODING...
