042 
FXUS61 KOKX 071746
AFDOKX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service New York NY
1246 PM EST Fri Mar 7 2025

.SYNOPSIS...
Low pressure gradually departs to the northeast through tonight. A 
cold front moves through Saturday morning followed by high pressure 
building in through Sunday morning. A surface trough moves through 
Sunday night. High pressure will then remain in control Monday 
through Wednesday. Another frontal system approaches towards the end 
of the week.

&&

.NEAR TERM /THROUGH TONIGHT/...
Winds will continue to gust toward 50 mph for a couple of more
hours. Dry conditions prevail under abundant sunshine. Previous
discussion follows.

Heights rise aloft this afternoon as the upper level trough 
axis is to our east. By late tonight heights lower a bit ahead 
of an approaching shortwave. At the surface, low pressure 
continues to gradually depart to the northeast and the pressure 
gradient over the area remains tight during the daytime hours. 
The gradient slackens a bit overnight as a weakening frontal 
system gets absorbed into the broader low to our northeast.

Strong winds continue this afternoon with the tight pressure 
gradient and deep mixing. The Wind Advisory remains in effect 
until 4 PM. Forecast wind gusts have not changed much from the 
previous forecasts. Model soundings show mixing up to around 
850mb through the day across our whole area. Winds at that 
height are 40 to 50 kt through the morning hours and then drop a
few kt for the afternoon. For hourly wind gust forecast went 
with a blend of NAM 900mb winds and the NBM90th percentile wind 
gusts. This gave several hours of widespread 45-50 mph gusts. 
Isolated gusts of 55 mph are likely, with the potential for a 
few 60 mph gusts, mainly through the morning hours. We decouple 
tonight and will get a lull in the gusty winds.

The aforementioned weakening frontal system approaches the area 
tonight along with another cold front. As a result, we may see some 
light rain/snow showers. Have slight chance to chance PoPs 
everywhere except southern CT. No snow accumulation is expected at 
this time.

&&

.SHORT TERM /SATURDAY THROUGH SUNDAY NIGHT/...
The aforementioned cold front moves through Saturday morning and we 
once again get deep mixing in CAA. Winds aloft are not as strong, so 
not expecting Wind Advisory levels, but still likely see gusts up to 
35 mph. Gusts were derived the same way as mentioned above.

High pressure noses in from the south through Sunday morning, but 
then another shortwave and surface trough move through Sunday night. 
This likely does not result in any showers and should just bring 
increased cloud cover. Gusty winds expected again Sunday during the 
day, but topping out at 30 mph.

Stuck close to NBM for temps during this period.

&&

.LONG TERM /MONDAY THROUGH THURSDAY/...
High pressure remains in control Monday through Wednesday. However, 
a weak low and trough pass to our north on Monday, along with a low 
pressure passing south of the region Monday night and Tuesday. Both 
are expected to remain far enough away to have no impacts here. A 
gradual warmup occurs during this period with highs Monday getting 
into the 50s, with 50s and 60s on Tuesday and Wednesday. There is 
some uncertainty with the timing of a cold front on Thursday into 
Thursday night. Will continue to carry just chance POPs for now. 
Temperatures will remain rather mild with temperatures reaching the 
50s and 60s once again on Thursday.

&&

.AVIATION /18Z FRIDAY THROUGH WEDNESDAY/...
The region remains between strong low pressure to the north and high 
pressure to the south. Troughs of low pressure pivot through during 
the period.

VFR. 

W gusts mainly between 30-40kt for the next couple of hours, with a 
few peak gusts of 45 kt. Winds start to diminish late this afternoon 
and this evening. There will likely be a period tonight where the 
gusts end, mainly towards 06z for the city terminals, and a few 
hours sooner for outlying terminals towards 01-02z. Gusts however do 
redevelop once again Saturday morning with gusts getting close to 
30kt towards midday.

 ...NY Metro (KEWR/KLGA/KJFK/KTEB) TAF Uncertainty...

No amendments are expected.


.OUTLOOK FOR 18Z SATURDAY THROUGH WEDNESDAY...

Saturday: VFR with WNW winds 15-20G30kt.

Sunday - Monday: VFR.

Tuesday: VFR, SW-S winds.

Wednesday: VFR.

Detailed information, including hourly TAF wind component forecasts, 
can be found at: https:/www.weather.gov/zny/n90

&&

.MARINE...
Gale conditions continue through the day for all waters with 35 to 
40 kt W-NW gusts. There will be a lull in winds tonight, although a 
Small Craft Advisory will be needed on the ocean waters for the 
lingering 5 ft seas. By Saturday, gusts reach 30 kt, with potential 
for gales late in the day for the eastern LI Sound, Peconic and 
Gardiners Bays and the ocean zone south of Montauk. Confidence is 
still not high enough for a watch, but have mentioned in the HWO. 
There will then be another lull Saturday night before SCA gusts 
return again on Sunday, with 25 to 30 kt gusts.

Sub-SCA conditions are expected across all waters Monday into 
Tuesday morning. Seas may build back to SCA levels late Tuesday into 
Tuesday night as low pressure passes well south of the area. Seas 
fall back below 5ft on Wednesday. SCA conditions return towards the 
end of the week with the approach of a cold front.

&&

.FIRE WEATHER...
Although the area saw 1-2 inches of rain on Wednesday, windy and dry 
conditions today and Saturday will allow for an increased risk in 
fire spread. Both days will see min RH values around 30 percent. 
Gusts on Friday are expected to reach 45 to 50 mph, with gusts on 
Saturday around 30 to 35 mph. However, in coordination with fire 
partners, no products are expected at this time.

&&

.HYDROLOGY...
There are no hydrologic concerns through the middle of next
week.

&&

.OKX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CT...Wind Advisory until 4 PM EST this afternoon for CTZ005>012.
NY...Wind Advisory until 4 PM EST this afternoon for NYZ067>075-
     078>081-176>179.
NJ...Wind Advisory until 4 PM EST this afternoon for NJZ002-004-006-
     103>108.
MARINE...Gale Warning until 6 PM EST this evening for ANZ331-332-335-
     338-340-345-350-353-355.

&&

$$

SYNOPSIS...BC/JT
NEAR TERM...DR/JT
SHORT TERM...JT
LONG TERM...BC
AVIATION...JE
MARINE...BC/JT
FIRE WEATHER...
HYDROLOGY...BC/JT
