697 
FXUS61 KOKX 030251
AFDOKX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service New York NY
1051 PM EDT Wed Apr 2 2025

.SYNOPSIS...
A warm front will approach tonight and lift through Thursday
morning. A slow moving cold front will then drop into the area
Thursday night into Friday. Unsettled conditions are likely this
weekend with the frontal boundary remaining nearby. The front 
will move away on Monday, with high pressure slowly returning 
into Tuesday.

&&

.NEAR TERM /UNTIL 6 AM THURSDAY MORNING/...
Forecast generally on track with only minor adjustments to 
account for the latest observations, mainly for temperature and 
dew points. Some showers moving through associated with
overrunning moisture out ahead of the approaching warm front
from the south. Much of the more widespread showers remain north
of the forecast area.

As high pressure moves off to the east, a warm front will
approach from the south tonight. An area of showers/tstms over
central PA will be weakening as it moves east, and some 
isolated activity from this may make it into areas from NYC 
metro north/west this evening. Also expect warm advection 
showers to break out over the area late tonight as the warm 
front gets closer. Evening low temps in the upper 30s/lower 40s
will rise slowly overnight, with temps 45-50 by daybreak.

&&

.SHORT TERM /6 AM THURSDAY MORNING THROUGH THURSDAY NIGHT/...
Area of fog and some drizzle likely to develop in the morning 
especially from NYC east as the warm front lifts through. CAM's 
meanwhile show potential for additional showers and isolated 
tstms to move across from the west in the morning. 

Any fog should become patchy in nature by afternoon, with temps
warming up to the lower/mid 60s across Long Island, and upper 
60s/lower 70s from NYC west. S winds will become gusty after 
warm fropa, with gusts up to 25-30 mph in the NYC metro area 
and along the coast, and mostly 15-20 mph inland. Another 
chance for showers possible ahead of the slow moving cold front 
across parts of NE NJ. Air mass does not look all that unstable,
with SBCAPE no more than 200-500 J/kg in this area, so have 
only mentioned slight chance thunder. This instability then 
skirts NYC and Long Island in the evening, so once again have
only mentioned slight chance thunder for those areas. Do not
expect any svr potential with this activity. 

Cold front should enter the area from late evening into the
overnight. As it does so, an upper jet streak well to the 
north and mid level vort energy riding top a broad upper ridge 
axis over the Southeast should bring another chance of showers
after midnight. Low temps will be mostly in the lower 50s.

&&

.LONG TERM /FRIDAY THROUGH WEDNESDAY/...
Key Points: 

* Unsettled conditions are expected this weekend with a frontal 
  boundary in the vicinity. 

* Showers are most likely on Saturday and then again late Sunday 
  into Sunday night. 

* Improving conditions are likely Monday with high pressure slowly 
  building towards the area on Tuesday.

* Seasonably cool temperatures Saturday should trend warmer on 
  Sunday with some 70s possible for NE NJ, NYC metro and Lower 
  Hudson Valley. Temperatures then trend cooler early next week.

Any showers remaining in the area Friday morning will come to an end 
by afternoon as a cold front pushes south and high pressure builds 
into the Great Lakes and Northeast. This should keep much of Friday 
dry, but the high pressure quickly moves through, departing the area 
by Friday night and into Saturday morning. A shortwave develops an 
area of low pressure over the Ohio Valley and pushes into the 
Northeast Saturday. This will bring a warm front pushing north 
through the area and with it, the potential for showers Saturday 
morning and through the day. The strongest WAA will be north of the 
area with a possibility of the coastline seeing more showery 
activity as opposed to a steady rain.

The warm front continues to push north of the area which may result 
in a lull in rain for Saturday night, though a saturated BL may 
result in continued drizzle and fog for much of the region Saturday 
night into Sunday morning. The area is expected to be in the warm 
sector of the initial low to the north with a secondary low pressure 
system developing upstream along the cold front. This intensifying 
low pressure system will advect additional moisture and provide 
ample forcing for the area by Sunday night as the front approaches 
from the west. Widespread rain, locally moderate to heavy, is 
possible with the frontal passage. While there doesn't appear to be 
significant amounts of instability, there does seem to be enough 
elevated CAPE to support at least a slight chance of thunder for the 
time being, though this is highly dependent on the amount of cloud 
cover and heating during the day on Sunday if the warm front is able 
to push further north than anticipated.

The cold front pushes through Sunday night and into Monday morning. 
Rain should come to an end by Monday morning, though some additional 
showers may be possible Monday and Tuesday as the upper level trough 
swings overhead providing for some additional lift. High pressure 
then builds back in for the middle of next week.

Temperatures on Friday will be above average with highs in the low 
to middle 60s. The cold front moves through and cools down the area 
for Saturday back into the low 50s. The warm front moves north for 
Sunday allowing temperatures to rise into the 60s to possibly low 
70s for portions of NJ and NYC, though this particular day's highs 
will depend on the proximity of the warm front and any cloud cover. 
Otherwise, a generally cooling trend is expected through the middle 
of next week with highs Monday into the upper 50s and cooling down 
to the upper 40s to low 50s by Wednesday.

&&

.AVIATION /03Z THURSDAY THROUGH MONDAY/...
High pressure retreats east into the Atlantic tonight, while a 
warm front approaches from the south. The warm front passes 
trough late tonight into Thursday morning. 

Some MVFR ceilings have made their way into the terminals a few
hours ahead of the forecast. There may be some improvement back
to VFR for those that are MVFR at times, but conditions are
expected to continue to deteriorate overnight to IFR/LIFR in 
low clouds, fog, and light rain or drizzle. There will also be a
chance of showers tonight into Thursday. Improvement on 
Thursday in the warm sector will be mainly confined to the NYC 
and Lower Hudson Valley terminals Thursday afternoon. The 
eastern terminals will likely remain IFR/LIFR through the day. 
There is a great deal of uncertainty with KJFK in regards to any
improvement making its way to the terminal, but current 
guidance supports a return to VFR by 01Z Friday, slightly 
earlier for the other city terminals.

SE winds 10-15kt G20kt this evening will gradually shift 
overnight, becoming S/SW with the passage of the warm front 
Thursday morning. Gusts overnight will be more persistent along 
the coast and may for a time drop off or be less frequent. Gusts
likely return in the warm sector Thursday afternoon. 

LLWS expected late tonight and Thursday morning with S-SW winds
45-50 kt at 2kft. 

 ...NY Metro (KEWR/KLGA/KJFK/KTEB) TAF Uncertainty...

Wind gusts late afternoon/early evening may be occasional. 

Amendments for flight category changes likely for tonight into 
Thursday morning. 

Low confidence visibility forecast Thursday morning. KJFK could
remain IFR/LIFR through Thursday afternoon. 

.OUTLOOK FOR 00Z FRIDAY THROUGH MONDAY...

Thursday Night: Eastern terminals remain LIFR/IFR into Thursday
evening before improving to VFR with a cold frontal passage. 
The NYC and Lower Hudson Valley terminals will likely see some 
improvement to MVFR in the afternoon and VFR in the evening. 
S/SW gusts 20-30 kt, strongest along the coast.

Friday: Chance of MVFR in showers, especially in the morning
along the coast. 

Saturday: MVFR to IFR with showers likely. E wind gusts 15-20kt.

Sunday: IFR in the morning, becoming MVFR. A chance of showers.
SW gusts 15-20 kt possible. 

Monday: MVFR with a chance of showers, mainly in the morning.

Detailed information, including hourly TAF wind component forecasts, 
can be found at: https:/www.weather.gov/zny/n90

&&

.MARINE...
E flow should veer SE tonight and increase to 15-20 kt with some
gusts up to 25 kt, bringing marginal SCA cond to all ocean 
waters, with seas building to 5-6 ft. 

As a warm front lifts through late tonight into Thu morning, 
expect sustained S winds 20-25 kt with gusts 25-30 kt to 
develop, mainly on the ocean waters and the Long Island South 
Shore Bays, where SCA has been issued for daytime Thu. Ocean 
seas during this time should build to 5-8 ft. The other waters 
may see occasional gusts up to 25 kt, and it is possible that an
SCA may be needed, especially for the central/ern Sound and the
eastern bays. 

There is a chance for dense fog on the waters Thu especially in
the morning with the warm frontal passage. 

SCA cond likely to continue on the ocean Thu night, with SW flow
still gusting to 25-30 kt especially out east, and seas 5-8 ft. 

Sub-SCA conditions are likely Friday afternoon through Sunday
morning. By Sunday afternoon, an approaching frontal system 
will allow ocean seas to build above 5 ft, with SCA likely. 
Sheltered waters should remain below SCA. SCA conditions on the 
ocean likely continue through at least Monday.

&&

.HYDROLOGY...
No hydrologic impacts expected attm.

&&

.OKX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CT...None.
NY...None.
NJ...None.
MARINE...Small Craft Advisory from 8 AM to 6 PM EDT Thursday for ANZ345.
     Small Craft Advisory until 6 AM EDT Friday for ANZ350-353-355.

&&

$$

SYNOPSIS...BG/MW
NEAR TERM...BG/JP/MW
SHORT TERM...BG
LONG TERM...MW
AVIATION...JP
MARINE...BG/MW
HYDROLOGY...BG/MW
