624 
FXUS61 KOKX 231812
AFDOKX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service New York NY
212 PM EDT Sat Aug 23 2025

.SYNOPSIS...
High pressure along the northeast coast continues to drift offshore 
tonight. A cold front approaches Sunday evening and moves slowly 
through the area late Sunday night into Monday. High pressure then 
gradually builds in for the middle to end of next week.

&&

.NEAR TERM /THROUGH TONIGHT/...
High pressure east of Long Island will continue to slide offshore 
tonight. Meanwhile, a cold front moving across the Great Lakes 
region, will continue to push eastward towards the CWA. A southerly 
flow tonight could result in an increase in some cloud cover and a 
few of the hi-res models (NAM 4K and ARW) are hinting at some light 
rain or drizzle east of NYC. For now, with most models remaining 
dry, will lean in that direction, however will need to monitor 
trends this evening. Lows tonight will be in the 60s. 

&&

.SHORT TERM /SUNDAY THROUGH MONDAY/...
An upper level low moving across central and eastern Canada, will 
slowly move eastward through Monday. At the surface a cold front 
associated with surface low pressure north of the Great Lakes will 
slowly push eastward, likely not reaching the far western portion of 
the CWA until Monday morning. Ahead of the front however, expect 
clouds to increase through the day Sunday. Showers and possibly a 
thunderstorm will be possible Sunday late afternoon into the 
overnight. Expect POPs to gradually increase Sunday afternoon and 
Sunday night. The front gradually pushes across the area during the 
day Monday, moving east of the area either late Monday evening or 
Monday night. Expect at least a chance of showers are the front 
pushes across the region. There will be an increase in precipitable 
waters, 1.5-2.0 inches, and with a slow eastward storm motion a few 
showers and thunderstorms have the potential of producing briefly 
heavy rainfall. 

&&

.LONG TERM /MONDAY NIGHT THROUGH SATURDAY/...
Key Points:

* Dry conditions expected through the long term.

* Temperatures through the long term will be near or slightly below 
  normal. 

Forecast models in good agreement through the long term with a cold 
front pushing east of the forecast area Monday night, followed by a 
larger area of high pressure building over the area from the Central 
Plains through the middle and end of the week. 

&&

.AVIATION /18Z SATURDAY THROUGH THURSDAY/...
High pressure slides offshore into tonight. A cold front approaches 
Sunday.

Mainly VFR.

A brief period of MVFR cigs is possible Sun AM after 9Z. Any low 
cigs should erode by mid morning, with a return to VFR thereafter.

S or SSW flow through the TAF period. Gusts toward 20 kt develop at 
most terminals this afternoon, and up to 25 kt at KJFK and KLGA. 
Gusts largely diminish by 3Z this evening. City terminals remain 
near 10 kt overnight, with a few outlying terminals decreasing to 5 
kt. Similar flow on Sunday, speeds a few kts lighter, with gusts up 
to 20 kt developing by mid afternoon.

 ...NY Metro (KEWR/KLGA/KJFK/KTEB) TAF Uncertainty...

Low confidence in MVFR ceilings Sunday morning.

.OUTLOOK FOR 18Z SUNDAY THROUGH THURSDAY...

Sunday and Monday: Scattered showers Sun PM and Mon PM, isolated 
tstm possible in the aft/eve, MVFR or lower possible.

Tuesday - Thursday: VFR.

Detailed information, including hourly TAF wind component forecasts, 
can be found at: https:/www.weather.gov/zny/n90

&&

.MARINE...
Small Craft Advisories remain on the ocean waters into  
this evening, with the E long period swells slow to subside and
combined the late afternoon/eve coastal jet formation.

Ocean seas then fall below SCA levels late tonight. Conditions 
then remain below advisory levels for all waters into mid next 
week.

&&

.HYDROLOGY...
There are no hydrologic concerns through the middle of next
week.

&&

.TIDES/COASTAL FLOODING...
The high risk for rip currents continues through Sunday for the 
Atlantic Ocean beaches as residual long period 3 to 4 ft easterly 
swell will be slow to subside, combined with a 1-2 ft southerly wind 
wave. The High surf advisory has been allowed to end with the surf 
still elevated but now below criteria. However, some additional 
minor beach erosion and escarpment remains possible for today's high 
tides with a west to east sweeping surf of 3 to 5 ft.

Localized minor coastal flooding remains possible for a few 
gauges reaching minor benchmarks for this evening's high tide 
also in Nassau. 

&&

.OKX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CT...None.
NY...High Risk for Rip Currents through Sunday evening for NYZ075-080-
     081-178-179.
NJ...None.
MARINE...Small Craft Advisory until 11 PM EDT this evening for ANZ350-
     353-355.

&&

$$

SYNOPSIS...BC
NEAR TERM...BC
SHORT TERM...BC
LONG TERM...BC
AVIATION...DR
MARINE...BC
HYDROLOGY...BC
TIDES/COASTAL FLOODING...
