490 
FXUS61 KOKX 020600
AFDOKX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service New York NY
100 AM EST Thu Jan 2 2025

.SYNOPSIS...
Low pressure will continue to strengthen as it moves northeast
into the Canadian Maritimes overnight. The low will then
retrograde westward into Southeast Canada Thursday into Friday.
Meanwhile, weak high pressure will slide well to the southwest
of the region Thursday into Friday, with a cold front moving 
through Friday night. Weak high pressure will build in for the
weekend. Low pressure will pass to the south early next week.  

&&

.NEAR TERM /UNTIL 6 AM THIS MORNING/...
Deep longwave troughing continues across the NE CONUS and ern
Canada, with the axis of the developing closed low having
pivoted NE of the region. At the surface, low pressure continues
to strengthen as it moves NE into New Brunswick Canada. 

With weakening lapse rates and CAA, winds have temporarily
diminished below advy criteria. 

Despite gradual cold advection, mixed low levels and SCT cloud
cover, should keep temps near to slightly above seasonable 
levels (upper 20s/lower 30s). 

&&

.SHORT TERM /6 AM THIS MORNING THROUGH FRIDAY NIGHT/...
* Wind Advisory remains in effect until 10 PM Thu for 
  widespread W winds gusting to 45-50 mph, and isolated gusts to
  55 mph. 

A deepening closed low will retrograde NW from the Canadian
Maritimes into Quebec. A weak northern stream shortwave pivoting
around the base of the longwave trough toward the region late
Friday and will pass through Friday night. 

At the surface, strong low pressure retrogrades NW through
southeast Canada Thursday into Friday. Meanwhile, weak high 
pressure slides well to the southwest of the region, with a 
polar front approaching late Friday. 

Pressure gradient remains tight thru the day Thursday, with
winds at top of mixed layer 45-50 kt in a diurnally steepened 
mixing profile. This should support resurgence of westerly winds
20-30g40-50 mph areawide, with isolated gusts to 55 mph. Winds 
should gradually decrease Thu Night as pressure gradient 
weakens, but W winds 15-20G25-35mph likely through at least the 
first half of Friday. Winds should subside a bit Fri aft/early 
eve, before a resurgence to similar speeds from the NW winds 
Friday Night with shot of CAA and strengthened pressure 
gradient.

Otherwise, continued cyclonic flow with weak vorts moving
through, will develop diurnal scattered to broken strato-cu 
development across the area Thursday. Cloud cover should scatter
Thursday Night into Fri AM, with increasing cloud cover Fri 
afternoon ahead of next approaching shortwave and polar front. 
Deep westerly flow will keep conditions dry, but a few flurries 
possible late Friday/Friday eve with shortwave/frontal passage.

Continued gradual CAA through the period should have highs near
seasonable on Thursday and a few degrees below seasonable 
Friday. Near seasonable temps Thu Night with mixed low-levels, 
and a few degrees below seasonable Friday Night with shot of 
polar air working in.

&&

.LONG TERM /SATURDAY THROUGH WEDNESDAY/...
Key points include cold/blustery/mainly dry conditions until 
potentially early next week, with chances of snow. 

Weak high pressure builds in at the surface as an upper level
trough departs for the weekend, keeping the area dry. A 
southern stream trough approaches Sunday night with a weak area 
of low pressure from the central or south central US (given some
uncertainty), and passes south of the area Monday night into 
Tuesday. Current model consensus is to take this low south of 
the area late Monday into Monday night, and this trend continues
with today's model runs. The area could see some light snow on 
the northern fringes of this system, but there is still a great 
deal of uncertainty this far out, and stuck pretty close to the 
NBM.

Persistent WNW-NW flow during this time frame will mean 
temperatures are expected average below normal through the 
period, not rising above the 30s for high temperatures.

&&

.AVIATION /06Z THURSDAY THROUGH MONDAY/...
VFR as low pressure continues to move NE and away from the area
overnight, and high pressure slides to the south and west
daytime Thu into Thu night. 

W winds should diminish slightly through the rest of tonight to
15-20 kt with gusts 25-30 kt. Winds increase again daytime Thu
after 12Z-13Z with gusts 35-40 kt, and diminish again Thu night
to 15-20 kt with gusts 25-30 kt. 

 ...NY Metro (KEWR/KLGA/KJFK/KTEB) TAF Uncertainty... 

Occasional G40kt possible daytime Thu. 

OUTLOOK FOR 06Z FRIDAY THROUGH MONDAY...

Late tonight: VFR with diminishing winds.

Friday through Sunday: Mainly VFR. W winds G20-25kt. 

Monday: Chance of light snow with MVFR cond. 

Detailed information, including hourly TAF wind component
forecasts, can be found at: https:/www.weather.gov/zny/n90

&&

.MARINE...
Gales should continue through Thu evening. Seas will build to 
7-12 ft on the ocean, and 4-7 ft on central/eastern Long Island
Sound. 

Winds should diminish to SCA levels Thu night into Fri AM. 
Winds may briefly fall below SCA level Fri afternoon before
another shot of CAA in wake of a cold frontal passage Fri night
likely brings winds back up to SCA for all waters. 

An extended period of SCA cond expected for the weekend with
gusts 25-30 kt for most of the waters, and ocean seas building 
to 5-7 ft through Sat night, slowly then diminishing on Sunday.
Ocean seas should 5 ft throughout by late Sunday night. 

&&

.HYDROLOGY...
No significant hydrologic issues anticipated. 

&&

.TIDES/COASTAL FLOODING...
Water levels may approach 1.5-2 ft below MLLW across western
portions of NY Harbor, Long Island Sound, and the bays of long
Island during the Thu afternoon low tide. This could cause
localized low water issues for moored boats and shallow 
water navigation. 

&&

.OKX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CT...Wind Advisory until 10 PM EST this evening for CTZ005>012.
NY...Wind Advisory until 10 PM EST this evening for NYZ067>075-
     078>081-176>179.
NJ...Wind Advisory until 10 PM EST this evening for NJZ002-004-006-
     103>108.
MARINE...Gale Warning until 10 PM EST this evening for ANZ331-332-335-
     338-340-345.
     Gale Warning until 1 AM EST Friday for ANZ350-353-355.

&&

$$

SYNOPSIS...JP/NV
NEAR TERM...JT/NV
SHORT TERM...NV
LONG TERM...JP
AVIATION...BG/JT
MARINE...JP/NV
HYDROLOGY...JP/NV
TIDES/COASTAL FLOODING...
