054 
FXUS61 KOKX 232322
AFDOKX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service New York NY
722 PM EDT Wed Apr 23 2025

.SYNOPSIS...
High pressure tonight moves offshore Thursday, but remains in 
control through Thursday night then exits early Friday. A 
frontal system will move across the area late Friday into 
Saturday, followed by high pressure Sunday into late Monday. 
Another frontal system may impact the area by midweek.

&&

.NEAR TERM /UNTIL 6 AM THURSDAY MORNING/...
Forecast remains generally on track with only minor adjustments
to account for the most recent observations. There is a chance
that some smoke from southern NJ wildfires approaches the NYC
metro and Long Island this evening but not confident enough in
the progression of the smoke and intensity to include in the
grids at this time. 

High pressure at the surface will be mainly centered over our 
region, leading to very light flow under the weak pressure gradient. 
Winds will become south synoptically tonight (instead of just with 
the current sea breeze) as the center of the high will be just to 
our east. 

Heights will continue to climb aloft from mid and upper level 
ridging. With ample subsidence, expecting clear skies to prevail 
tonight. 

Lows tonight will be near or just above climatological averages in 
the mid-40s to low-50s (up to mid-50s in the NYC metro).

&&

.SHORT TERM /6 AM THURSDAY MORNING THROUGH THURSDAY NIGHT/...
Surface high pressure will gradually push offshore Thursday into 
Thursday night. Heights aloft will also continue to rise through 
this period. 

High pressure remains mainly in control during the day and 
early night, leading to skies remaining clear and dry 
conditions prevailing, but cloud cover will begin to gradually 
increase late Thursday night as a frontal system approaches the 
region.

Temperatures will be above average on Thursday as the jet stream 
remains north of the area and heights continue to rise aloft. Due to 
light synoptic flow and warmer temperatures on land with much 
cooler ocean and LI sound waters, expecting another sea breeze 
on Thursday. Coastal areas will remain cooler than interior 
areas because of this. Highs towards the coast will be in the 
60s while the interior will reach the mid-70s to near 80. 

Overnight Thursday, lows will be warmer under a more light 
southwesterly flow in the mid/low-50s.

&&

.LONG TERM /FRIDAY THROUGH WEDNESDAY/...
Surface high pressure will move offshore Friday with an increasing 
SW flow over the area on the backside of the retreating high. This 
SW flow will result in above normal temperatures with highs on 
Friday in the upper 70s to near 80 for much of the interior areas. 
Coastal areas will remain in the upper 60s to low 70s. Partly cloudy 
skies in the morning will gradually become more cloud covered toward 
evening as a frontal system approaches from the west. There is a 
chance that low stratus develops for the coast toward Friday evening 
with an onshore flow increasing low level moisture. Drizzle is 
possible as well for these areas.

By Friday night, the center of the low pressure develops over the 
Great Lakes region and begins to push northeast in response to a 
digging mid-level trough. Given the ample amounts of low level 
moisture with dew points climbing into the 50s under a S/SW flow, 
rain showers become increasingly likely overnight and into Saturday 
morning with the approach of the cold front from the west. Models 
are in general agreement as to the timing and evolution of the cold 
frontal passage but the precipitation associated with it is a bit 
uncertain. Higher resolution models have the shower activity being 
more scattered with isolated thunderstorms developing late Friday 
night and into Saturday with global models having a more widespread 
stratiform rain with possible embedded thunderstorms.

The cold front will slowly make its way through the area on Saturday 
before finally moving through by evening. Rain showers will be 
likely for much of the area Saturday with possible isolated 
thunderstorms during the afternoon and evening hours ahead of the 
frontal passage. Given the shower activity and cloud cover, high 
temperatures Saturday will be cooler than Friday with highs in the 
middle 60s to low 70s. Total rainfall accumulations at this time are 
expected to be 0.5 to 0.75 inches, with locally higher amounts 
possible in any thunderstorms.

The cold front pushes through by Saturday evening with high pressure 
building in the area from Sunday and into Monday. This will result 
in dry but cooler conditions for Sunday with highs in the 60s. As 
mid-level heights rise with a developing mid-level ridge on the back 
side of the surface high pressure, temperatures should increase as 
well through the middle of the week. Highs on Monday will be in the 
upper 60s to middle 70s with Tuesday climbing to near 80 for the 
western portions of the CWA away from the coast. Another frontal 
system may approach the area from the west by Wednesday.

&&

.AVIATION /00Z THURSDAY THROUGH MONDAY/...
High pressure remains over the area tonight, and drifts 
offshore Thursday.

Mainly VFR through the TAF period.

Sea breezes end early this evening with a light SW flow for a 
couple of hours. Winds become light and variable at all the
terminals by late evening. A light SE flow develops mid to late
morning Thursday, and then winds becoming southerly during the
afternoon, with sea breeze enhancement.

The NYC/LI terminals may be impacted by smoke from the nearby 
wildfires in NJ. This evening, the flow is expected to turn more
southerly, bringing the smoke plume into the airspace. Still 
some uncertainty just how low any conditions get. For now, will 
carry a tempo group for 5SM in haze. 

 ...NY Metro (KEWR/KLGA/KJFK/KTEB) TAF Uncertainty...

Seabreezes will be ending 01Z to 02Z with winds becoming light SW, 
then light and variable by late evening into the overnight.

MVFR cigs/vsbys possible in smoke/hz this evening from wild 
fires in NJ. Confidence is low, and carried a tempo for the
possibility.


.OUTLOOK FOR 00Z FRIDAY THROUGH MONDAY...

Thursday night-Friday: VFR. Late Friday S winds G15-20 kt.

Friday Night-Saturday: MVFR or lower in showers. An isolated 
thunderstorm possible Saturday. S/SW gusts 15-20 kt, becoming 
W-NW in the afternoon/evening, gusting 20-25 kt.

Sunday: VFR. N gusts 15-20 kt possible.

Monday: VFR.

Detailed information, including hourly TAF wind component forecasts, 
can be found at: https:/www.weather.gov/zny/n90
&&

.MARINE...
Sub advisory conditions are expected Wed night through Thu night 
under high pressure.

Sub-SCA conditions are expected Friday with an increasing S flow 
resulting in SCA on the ocean by early Saturday morning. Gusts to 25 
kt will be possible with wave heights 5-7 feet for the ocean on 
Saturday. The Great South Bay, Eastern LIS, and the eastern bays may 
also have SCA conditions with 25kt gusts. Conditions for the non-
ocean waters fall below SCA by Saturday night with wave heights 
remaining above 5 feet on the ocean through at least Sunday morning. 
Sub-SCA conditions are then expected on all waters through at least 
Monday.

&&

.HYDROLOGY...
While WPC has the area in a marginal risk for excessive rainfall on 
Saturday, rainfall should come over a long enough period to not 
cause any widespread hydrologic issues. Total accumulations of 0.5 
to 0.75 inches expected with locally higher amounts possible in any 
thunderstorms.

&&

.OKX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CT...None.
NY...Air Quality Alert from midnight tonight to midnight EDT 
     Thursday night for NYZ069>075-078>081-176>179.
NJ...None.
MARINE...None.

&&

$$

SYNOPSIS...BR/MW
NEAR TERM...BR/MW
SHORT TERM...BR
LONG TERM...MW
AVIATION...MET
MARINE...BR/MW
HYDROLOGY...BR/MW
