065 
FXUS61 KOKX 241727
AFDOKX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service New York NY
1227 PM EST Mon Feb 24 2025

.SYNOPSIS...
High pressure will move east out into the Atlantic today. A weak
cold front will approach on Tuesday and move across during late 
afternoon and early evening, followed by high pressure into
Wednesday. A warm front will lift to the north Wednesday night,
followed by a cold front on Thursday and a secondary cold frontal
passage Thursday night. High pressure will briefly take hold on 
Friday. A clipper low will pass over the area or just north on
Saturday, followed by high pressure Sunday into Monday.

&&

.NEAR TERM /UNTIL 6 PM THIS EVENING/...
Forecast still on track. Minor adjustments made to better match
with observed trends, mainly for AM cloud cover over parts of 
CT and incoming clouds to the west entering the Hudson Valley.

Low level southerly flow develops today and will result in warm air 
advection. Mid level ridging will allow for more subsidence.
Except for some AM cloud inland, mostly sunny sky conditions
expected, with some increase in clouds throughout by late day.
MOS in agreement with above normal temperatures today, 
reaching well into the 40s throughout the region with near 50 
degree values within and around the NYC Metro.

&&

.SHORT TERM /6 PM THIS EVENING THROUGH THURSDAY/...
Mid level heights nearly steady tonight. The low level warm air 
advection continues tonight at 850mb. At the surface, the 
continuance of southerly flow will keep temperatures relatively 
warmer along the coast while locations farther inland will be 
relatively colder.

Mid level trough approaches with decreasing mid level heights 
Tuesday. The lowering height trend continues into Tuesday night as 
the trough axis moves through. The 850mb warm air advection 
continues early but will then transition eventually to cold air 
advection by the end of the day. The mid level trough exits east of 
the area by early Wednesday. 850mb temperatures continue to lower 
Tuesday night. At the surface, southerly flow Tuesday switches to 
more westerly flow late Tuesday into Tuesday night with the passage 
of a cold front. High temperatures forecast Tuesday are a few 
degrees higher compared to the previous day.

A few rain showers are possible with the cold front with otherwise 
mainly dry conditions and just an increase in clouds accompanying 
the frontal passage. Low temperatures Tuesday night are forecast to 
be nearly the same as the previous night. Low pressure well offshore 
travels northward along the front Tuesday night, so winds stay up a 
little more with relatively tighter pressure gradient.

The airmass will moderate quickly Wednesday with temperature 
trending warmer at 850mb. 850mb temperatures further warm Wednesday 
night into early Thursday before decreasing again. Highs forecast on 
Wednesday similar overall to the highs the previous day. Blended in 
more raw model consensus data for temperatures Wednesday night and 
Thursday. Not too much of a diurnal swing of temperatures is 
expected. Mainly mid to upper 30s for forecast lows Wednesday night 
followed by forecast highs in the upper 40s to lower 50s on Thursday.

The frontal system approaching Wednesday night has an associated 
warm front moving across the region followed by a cold front 
approaching going into Thursday. This cold front moves in during the 
day on Thursday. A higher chance of rain showers will accompany this 
frontal system compared to the system earlier in the week. Highest 
chances for rain showers will be Thursday afternoon into early 
evening with some locations north and west of NYC having rain 
showers likely.

&&

.LONG TERM /THURSDAY NIGHT THROUGH SUNDAY/...
Key Points:

* Few rain showers Thursday night with gusty NW winds.

* Average temperatures Friday followed by below normal 
  temperatures Friday night. 

* Uncertainty surrounding a clipper low on Saturday, but likely 
  bringing either rain or snow. 

* Dry with below normal temperatures Sunday into Monday. 

Model guidance agrees on a cold front passing Thursday evening in 
response to a passing low exiting into New England Thursday evening, 
then further deepening as it moves into the Canadian Maritimes. AS 
the cold front passes, most rain showers are expected to clear.

A secondary cold front will pass with a digging longwave trough 
Thursday night. While we'll quickly dry following the first frontal 
passage, some upper-level energy associated with the longwave trough 
over the eastern US and our nearby location to the left exit of the 
jet stream to our south, may provide just enough for a few 
light rain/snow showers Thursday night. 

Thursday night into early Friday may also see some increased winds 
in response to a tight pressure gradient following the low's exit to 
our northeast.

Late Friday, expecting zonal flow aloft with weak surface high 
pressure briefly settling in. Winds will likely weaken in response 
by Friday evening. However, given the steady NW winds prior, plenty 
of colder air should advect in to leave highs on Friday in the 
mid/low-40s. With lighter flow Friday night due to the high 
pressure directly overhead, temperatures should dip into the low-30s 
to low-20s.

Our next system is poised to impact us on Saturday or Saturday 
night. A clipper low will pass either over our area, which would 
lead to mainly snow (00Z GFS shows this) or the low will pass to our 
north leading to mainly rain or a rain/snow mix (00Z 
ECMWF/ICON/GDPS show this). Model timing track and strength of 
the low still vary quite a bit, so can't make any definite calls
just yet. For now, going with a rain to a rain-snow mix 
solution given most guidance keeps the low to our north, but 
there is still time for this to change. 

Following Saturday's low, which comes with a small shortwave trough 
aloft, a deeper longwave trough will settle over the eastern US for 
the remainder of the weekend and the start of next week. Most 
models agree on this solution with high pressure at the surface. 
Expecting this period to be dry with below normal temperatures.

&&

.AVIATION /17Z MONDAY THROUGH FRIDAY/...
High pressure continues to move offshore today. A frontal 
system approaches from the west into tonight and pushes through
late Tuesday.

VFR. There is a chance of -SHRA with MVFR conditions, mainly 
for ceilings, after 18Z Tuesday, but due to low confidence, 
included this possibility with a Prob30. KSWF more likely to go
MVFR than the NYC terminals. 

SE-S wind with speeds 5-10 kt. Winds may peak 10-15 kt at KJFK 
and KLGA. Some gusts to 20kt possible this afternoon mainly for
the NYC terminals. Winds veer slightly to the SSW this evening
and drop to around 5 kt or less. Continuing SSW wind 5-10 kt 
after daybreak tomorrow before shifting to the W/NW late in the 
day after a frontal passage.


 ...NY Metro (KEWR/KLGA/KJFK/KTEB) TAF Uncertainty...

Occasional gusts to 20kt possible this afternoon.

.OUTLOOK FOR 18Z TUESDAY THROUGH SATURDAY...

Tuesday: Mainly VFR. Slight chance of showers and MVFR
conditions after 18Z.

Wednesday: VFR.

Thursday: Showers with MVFR or lower possible. S-SW winds 
G15-20kt in the afternoon.

Friday: VFR. NW winds G15-25kt.

Detailed information, including hourly TAF wind component forecasts, 
can be found at: https:/www.weather.gov/zny/n90

&&

.MARINE...
Overall, expected the pressure gradient to remain weak enough to 
keep conditions below SCA thresholds on average today through 
midweek. Higher chances for SCA, especially on the ocean, are 
forecast Thursday associated with a frontal system moving 
through.

In wake of a frontal system, 5-7 ft waves could linger on the 
ocean Thursday night into Friday. Wind gusts may approach 25 kts on 
the ocean late Thursday night into early Friday. Friday night and 
thereafter, SCA criteria is not expected to be met.

&&

.HYDROLOGY...
No hydrologic impacts are expected through the start of next
week.

&&

.OKX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CT...None.
NY...None.
NJ...None.
MARINE...None.

&&

$$

SYNOPSIS...BG/JM/BR
NEAR TERM...BG/JM
SHORT TERM...JM
LONG TERM...BR
AVIATION...MW
MARINE...BG/JM/BR
HYDROLOGY...JM/BR
