710 
FXUS61 KOKX 191733
AFDOKX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service New York NY
1233 PM EST Wed Feb 19 2025

.SYNOPSIS...
Deepening low pressure across the southeast this afternoon and
evening tracks off the coast well south and east of the area 
tonight through Thursday night. Thereafter, a large dome of 
high pressure over the mid section of the country builds in 
through the weekend. A series of clipper lows will then approach
from the Great Lakes early next week.

&&

.NEAR TERM /THROUGH TONIGHT/...
Forecast on track through this evening. 

The pressure gradient continues to weaken this afternoon
allowing the winds to slowly weaken for the rest of the daytime
hours. A piece of the strong 1050 mb high centered over the 
Central US will build in from the Mid Atlantic into this
evening. Temperatures will remain sub freezing this afternoon. 
Forecast highs are in the upper 20s to around 30. While winds 
weaken, wind chills will still make it feel like it is in the 
teens to around 20 this afternoon. High clouds will overspread
the area making for partly to mostly cloudy conditions at times
into the evening.

Low pressure develops across the southeast pushes off the coast
tonight well south and east of the area. Expecting conditions 
to remain dry overnight with the thickest clouds closer to the
coast. 

&&

.SHORT TERM /THURSDAY THROUGH THURSDAY NIGHT/...
Guidance continues to point towards deepening low pressure tracking 
well south and east of the region Thursday, with little to no 
snowfall locally the most likely scenario. The only exception may
be across far eastern Long Island, mainly the South Fork, where
a light snowfall remains an unlikely, but possible, solution.

Perhaps more likely than from the surface low, potential exists
for snow showers to develop as the vigorous parent upper low 
passes over the region into Thursday evening. Moisture 
convergence along a weak inverted trough extending back from the
surface low may also aid this possibility with additional lift.
Hi res CAMs hint at isolated to scattered snow showers moving 
thru late day and during the evening hours. Any activity that 
does develop is expected to be light, and accumulation, if any, 
is likely limited to a coating at best in areas that do see 
precip. Otherwise, overcast Thursday night into Friday morning 
with temperatures in the teens and 20s.

&&

.LONG TERM /FRIDAY THROUGH TUESDAY/...
* A gradual warmup into early next week. 

A departing storm system over the north Atlantic will be followed by 
a confluent, progressive upper flow across the eastern half of the 
country. This will allow strong high pressure (1040mb+) centered 
over the mid section of the country on Friday to build east and 
gradually weaken through the weekend. A gusty NW flow can be 
expected on Friday between the departing low and building high, with 
gusts of 20 to 30 mph. The high passes to the south Sunday into 
Monday. A series of mid level shortwaves then drop out of the 
Canadian Rockies, sending clipper lows out of the Great Lakes and 
into the Northeast early next week. There is a low chance of rain 
and/or snow during this time. There are some small timing 
differences early next week and for the most part stayed close to 
the National Blend of Models. 

Temperatures during this time period will start out 5-10 degrees 
below normal, but gradually warm up through the weekend and into 
early next week. By next Tuesday, expecting readings about 5-8 
degrees above normal, with highs in the mid 40s to around 50, and 
lows in the 30s.

&&

.AVIATION /17Z WEDNESDAY THROUGH SUNDAY/...
Low pressure passes well south and east of the area Thursday. 
An upper level low will cross the area Thursday evening and may
bring scattered snow showers to the terminals.

VFR through most of the TAF period as a mid level deck 
overspreads the region and lowers. Prob30 for light snow showers
after 22z Thu. MVFR possible.

WNW winds mostly left of 310 magnetic at 10-15 kt with gusts to
around 20 kt will begin to diminish this evening. Winds then 
become NW-N tonight at less than 10 kt and around 10 kt on
Thursday.

 ...NY Metro (KEWR/KLGA/KJFK/KTEB) TAF Uncertainty...

No unscheduled amendments are expected. 

.OUTLOOK FOR 18Z THURSDAY THROUGH MONDAY...

18Z Thursday: Chance MVFR or lower in light snow mainly for the
terminals E of the NYC metros During the evening hours, 
otherwise VFR. NW winds G20-25kt at night. 

Friday: VFR. NW winds G20-25 kt.

Saturday and Sunday: VFR. 

Monday...Mainly VFR...slight chance of MVFR in showers.

Detailed information, including hourly TAF wind component forecasts, 
can be found at: https:/www.weather.gov/zny/n90

&&

.MARINE...
Winds continue to subside this afternoon. Thereafter, sub SCA 
conditions persist tonight through Thursday with lighter flow 
and seas. Light freezing spray remains possible everywhere 
through this morning as well.

Small Craft Advisory conditions likely return Thursday night into 
Friday in the wake of deepening offshore low pressure as it tracks 
northeast into the North Atlantic. SCA conditions continue 
through Friday for all waters, then will be limited to mainly 
the ocean through Friday night. Sub advisory conditions then 
prevail through the upcoming weekend with a weaker pressure 
gradient as a high pressure ridge is followed by a weak trough.

&&

.HYDROLOGY...
No hydrologic impacts are expected through the week.

&&

.TIDES/COASTAL FLOODING...
Low water conditions gradually improve with lightening winds, 
but water levels during low tides today may still run 1 to 1.5 
ft below MLLW along parts of the Western LI Sound and the 
Peconic and Gardiners Bays.

&&

.OKX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CT...None.
NY...None.
NJ...None.
MARINE...None.

&&

$$

SYNOPSIS...DR/DW
NEAR TERM...DR/DS
SHORT TERM...DR
LONG TERM...DW
AVIATION...IRD
MARINE...DR/DW
HYDROLOGY...DR/DW
TIDES/COASTAL FLOODING...
