030 
FXUS61 KOKX 130644
AFDOKX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service New York NY
244 AM EDT Fri Jun 13 2025

.SYNOPSIS...
A cold front south of the region overnight stalls through 
Friday. A weak low pushes along the boundary late Friday night 
and pushes through early on Saturday. High pressure off the New 
England coast tries to build towards the area Sunday into Monday
as waves of low pressure move along the stalled boundary to our
south. The high weakens on Tuesday allowing the front to begin 
returning northward through next Thursday.

&&

.NEAR TERM /THROUGH TODAY/...
Cold front is just south of Long Island overnight. Some weak
reflectivity echoes have developed indicating a few light
showers. Coverage expected to remain isolated into early
morning. Otherwise, mainly dry conditions into early morning
hours with abundant mid to high level clouds.

Temperatures overnight will average close to or just 
above the seasonal norms with mainly 60s for lows.

Questions remain abound for the day Friday. The cold front
is expected to stall nearby. At the same time high pressure 
attempts to ridge down, at least temporary from the northwest 
before the next impulse attempts to approach from the west 
towards late in the day and evening. Also the upper level jet 
gets further downstream to the northeast as the region should 
get in-between any mid and upper level support / forcing 
mechanisms. Low end chance to slight chance PoPs appear prudent 
for the day Friday, although the consensus of NWP guidance keeps
the region dry much of the day. More of an onshore flow is 
expected into Friday afternoon with some uncertainty as to how 
much the onshore flow can penetrate into western most areas. 
With some cloud cover and more of an onshore flow temperatures 
should be cooler with mainly upper half of the 70s to lower 80s 
for daytime highs.

&&

.SHORT TERM /TONIGHT THROUGH 6 PM SATURDAY/...
During Friday night with the frontal boundary stalled nearby and 
perhaps just south of the area expect disturbances to more or less 
ride along the boundary. Occasional showers looks to take place 
during Friday night. The column is forecast to saturate further into 
later in the overnight and into early Saturday morning. Instability 
appears to be limited Friday night into Saturday, thus will carry 
high end chance to low end likely PoPs for weather across the region 
late Friday night into Saturday morning. During the day Saturday it 
doesn't appear to be a complete washout, as after the disturbance 
from the morning gets through most NWP guidance suggests a relative 
break or pause in any shower activity. Thus, have included low end 
chance PoPs Saturday afternoon. Suffice it to say that the start of 
the weekend will feature more in the way of clouds, with a period or 
two of unsettled weather with the potential for showers. With the 
onshore flow progged to continue on Saturday with a E-ENE wind in 
the boundary layer expect temperatures to average below normal. Max 
temperatures will likely only reach the upper 60s to perhaps some 
lower and middle lower 70s.

&&

.LONG TERM /SATURDAY NIGHT THROUGH THURSDAY/...
No significant changes were made to the long term Saturday night 
through next Thursday.

Key Points:

*While there is a chance for showers through the period, it will
not be a complete washout.

*Difficult to time waves of low pressure and moisture interactions 
with the stalled boundary to our south will  ultimately determine 
when/if showers occur across parts of the  area Saturday night 
through early next week. 

*The stalled boundary starts retreated northward later Tuesday 
through Thursday continuing the chance for showers, possibly a 
thunderstorm. 

*Temperatures will average below normal Sunday and Monday then 
return to more seasonably warm levels Tuesday with potential of 
warmer than normal conditions mid to late week. 

The region will lie on the southern periphery of the westerlies for 
much of the long term period with ridging holding across the 
southern US. A frontal boundary will remain stalled across the 
Middle Atlantic. The main forecast challenge Saturday night through 
Monday will be from difficult to time waves of low pressure on the 
stalled front as well as an subtle shortwaves in the middle level 
flow. Surface ridging will also try to take hold over the area, 
which may limit how much shower activity can develop. Model trends 
have been leaning in this direction, especially for Sunday into 
Monday with increasing chances for mostly dry conditions. The upper 
ridging may start building along the eastern seaboard Tuesday and 
Wednesday allowing the boundary to lift back to the north as a warm 
front. A more organized shortwave may then start approaching towards 
next Thursday which may also bring in another cold front, but this 
remains uncertain given it is a week out.

Rainfall amounts and any impacts appear limited at this time with 
any greater chance of convection potentially occurring mid week as 
conditions warm up and instability starts increasing. There will 
likely be adjustments to PoPs and timing of any potential convection 
once the mesoscale environment becomes better resolved.

&&

.AVIATION /07Z FRIDAY THROUGH TUESDAY/...
A cold front will stall south of the region with an area of low 
pressure developing and approaching along it for the TAF period.

VFR conditions expected through much of the TAF period. Clouds are 
expected to remain mainly broken coverage at mid to high levels. 
Clouds lower and thicken after 00Z Sat with potential for MVFR after 
06Z Sat as showers become more probable.

Winds initially will be variable direction and near or less than 5 
kts. Winds become more E to SE during the day and increase to near 
10 kts. Winds remain generally easterly and decrease to near 5 to 7 
kts towards end of TAF period but will be variable direction for
some terminals outside of NYC.


 NY Metro (KEWR/KLGA/KJFK/KTEB) TAF Uncertainty...

A few brief isolated showers are possible before 00Z Sat.


.OUTLOOK FOR 06Z SATURDAY THROUGH TUESDAY... 

Friday night: Mainly VFR but MVFR possible with showers becoming 
more probable.

Saturday: MVFR to IFR with chance of showers. Occasional NE wind 
gusts 15-20 kt possible.

Saturday night: Lowering chances of showers. MVFR to IFR possible.

Sunday: Chance of showers. Slight chance of a thunderstorm afternoon 
into early evening. MVFR to IFR possible at times. Otherwise VFR.

Monday: Chance of showers. MVFR to IFR possible at times. Otherwise 
VFR.

Tuesday: Mainly VFR.

Detailed information, including hourly TAF wind component 
forecasts, can be found at: https:/www.weather.gov/zny/n90

&&

.MARINE...
Sub advisory conditions are anticipated for all waters through the 
first half of the weekend. Ocean seas generally hold at 2 to 3 ft 
with a relaxed pressure gradient and a light onshore flow. Winds 
and seas are expected to remain below SCA levels from Saturday 
night through next Tuesday with a weak pressure gradient in place.

&&

.HYDROLOGY...
No hydrologic impacts expected through the middle of next week.

&&

.TIDES/COASTAL FLOODING...
The rip current risk is low on Friday with a light easterly 
flow and limited swell. There is a moderate rip current risk on 
Saturday with increasing easterly flow and building seas 3 to 4 
ft.

&&

.OKX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CT...None.
NY...None.
NJ...None.
MARINE...None.

&&

$$

SYNOPSIS...JE/DS
NEAR TERM...JE/DS/MET
SHORT TERM...JE
LONG TERM...DS
AVIATION...JM
MARINE...JE/DS/MET
HYDROLOGY...JE/DS
TIDES/COASTAL FLOODING...
