211 
FXUS61 KOKX 241005
AFDOKX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service New York NY
605 AM EDT Thu Apr 24 2025

.SYNOPSIS...
High pressure moves over the area today and offshore tonight 
into Friday. A frontal system approaches Friday night and moves 
across Saturday. High pressure follows Sunday into early next 
week. Another frontal system may move across the area mid next 
week.

&&

.NEAR TERM /THROUGH TONIGHT/...
No changes with this update as the forecast remains on track. 
Previous discussion follows.

Double barrel high pressure over the region this morning gets 
further east late this afternoon into tonight. A return flow of 
sorts attempts to get going. With the synoptic flow expected to 
be fairly light, look for a hybrid sea breeze to develop with a 
southerly flow off the cooler ocean, especially for the 
afternoon. By late in the afternoon a wide spread in 
temperatures should be anticipated, with mainly 60s and a few 
middle and upper 50s across coastal sections. Temperatures are 
expected to be considerably cooler across eastern coastal 
sections for the late day and early evening with a wind off the 
colder ocean. Across western and interior locations 70s are 
expected, with mainly middle and upper 70s for daytime maxes. 

Subtle height rises (especially at the 700 mb level) are indicated 
by global NWP through tonight and into Friday morning as the upper 
jet remains north of the region. Temperatures at 850 mb will remain 
around 10 C. With high pressure at the sfc over the Western Atlantic 
the low level winds will be more out of the SW tonight. Overall the 
winds will be light and temperatures should remain mild tonight with 
mainly 50s, with some upper 40s for eastern most portions of the 
area.

&&

.SHORT TERM /FRIDAY THROUGH SATURDAY/...
On Friday the synoptic flow increases some out of the south. 
Temperatures further inland and west are expected to be noticeably 
warmer as opposed to locations further east and closer to the 
coast. The warmest locations will likely be in the upper 70s and 
lower 80s, with cooler readings from NYC on east and along coastal 
sections of CT and LI where 60s and lower 70s are likely. At this 
point there appears to be enough mid and upper level ridging taking 
place into Friday to keep the region dry. However a frontal system 
off to the west begins to draw closer late in the day and into 
Friday night. This should lead to an increase in mid level clouds 
mainly during the afternoon hours. During Friday night clouds should 
lower with mainly chance showers for much of the night, with PoPs 
increasing late at night as pre-frontal forcing and ascent ahead of 
the boundary begin to increase some. With cloud cover and a 
southerly flow regime look for mild temperatures Friday night with 
temperatures holding steady and perhaps even rising a few degrees 
with mainly 50s to around 60 for the metro.

On Saturday the cold front will slowly make its way through eastern 
portions of the area by evening as a progressive shortwave moves 
north of the area. Rain showers will be likely for much of the 
area Saturday with possible isolated thunderstorms during the 
afternoon and evening hours ahead of the frontal passage. Cloud 
cover preceding the cold front will put a limit on any sfc based
CAPE / convective chances and organization. Given the shower 
activity and cloud cover, high temperatures will be cooler 
overall than previous days with highs mainly ranging from the 
middle 60s to lower 70s. Total rainfall accumulations at this 
time are expected to on the order of around a half inch, and 
perhaps up to 0.75 inches.

&&

.LONG TERM /SATURDAY NIGHT THROUGH WEDNESDAY/...
There has been little change to the forecast thinking Saturday night 
through the middle of next week. 

A cold front will continue pushing offshore Saturday evening.
The upper trough trails behind the front, but any lingering precip 
east of the NYC metro in the evening should quickly end as the 
forcing and deepest moisture move offshore. The upper trough will 
move over the region early Sunday and then off the coast Sunday 
night. High pressure will follow, but will remain over the Great 
Lakes and Ohio Valley on Sunday as low pressure lingers near the New 
England coast associated due to the slower progression of the upper 
trough. The high pressure will build over the the area Sunday night 
into Monday along with ridging aloft. The upper ridge will likely 
remain in place through Tuesday, but the surface high gradually 
works its way offshore. The latest model consensus then takes the 
next shortwave across the Great Lakes and up into southeast Canada 
by mid next week. The associated frontal system may then move across 
the area next Wednesday. Current precip probabilities are low due to 
the best forcing remaining well to our north.

Temperatures on Sunday should return to seasonable levels in the 
lower and middle 60s. A warming trend will then occur through 
Tuesday as temperatures rebound into the upper 60s and lower 70s 
Monday with upper 70s to around 80 on Tuesday away from the coast. 
This trend may continue into next Wednesday, but will be dependent 
on the timing of the aforementioned frontal system and exact wind 
direction.

&&

.AVIATION /10Z THURSDAY THROUGH MONDAY/...
VFR. High pressure remains over the area early this morning, then 
drifts offshore through this evening. 

Light and variable flow at all terminals through 13z. A light E to 
SE flow will then develop, gradually increasing into the afternoon 
as the direction becomes SSE-S. Wind speeds will likely be around 10-
13 kt with sea breeze enhancement. Winds will then veer to the SW 
this evening as speeds fall below 10 kt. 

 ...NY Metro (KEWR/KLGA/KJFK/KTEB) TAF Uncertainty...

NE flow may linger 1-2 hours longer into early afternoon before 
shifting to the SE.

.OUTLOOK FOR 06Z FRIDAY THROUGH MONDAY...

Thursday night-Friday: VFR. Late Friday S winds G15-20 kt.

Friday Night-Saturday: MVFR or lower in showers. An isolated 
thunderstorm possible Saturday. S/SW gusts 15-20 kt, becoming W-NW 
in the afternoon/evening, gusting 20-25 kt.

Sunday: VFR. N gusts 15-20 kt possible.

Monday: VFR.

Detailed information, including hourly TAF wind component forecasts, 
can be found at: https:/www.weather.gov/zny/n90

&&

.MARINE...
With high pressure nearby and getting east of the waters sub 
advisory conditions will prevail through the day Friday with ocean 
seas not much above 2 ft throughout. By late Friday and Friday 
evening a southerly flow increases with gusts potentially 
approaching 20 kt for some of the southern coastal waters. Small 
craft conditions will become increasingly likely Friday night, at 
least out on the ocean as the pressure gradient increases ahead of 
an approaching frontal boundary. More widespread small craft 
conditions are anticipated on Saturday with ocean seas climbing to 5 
to 7 ft. SW winds will switch quickly to the NW from west to east 
with the passage of a cold front by the late afternoon / early 
evening Saturday.

Marginal SCA wind gusts on the ocean may continue Saturday evening, 
but overall winds should end up below 25 kt late Saturday night into 
Sunday. Ocean seas will remain 5-6 ft Saturday night before 
subsiding below 5 ft Sunday morning. Conditions will then remain 
below SCA levels into early next week.

&&

.HYDROLOGY...
There are no hydrologic concerns throughout the forecast period.

&&

.OKX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CT...None.
NY...Air Quality Alert until midnight EDT tonight for NYZ069>075-
     078>081-176>179.
NJ...None.
MARINE...None.

&&

$$

SYNOPSIS...JE/DS
NEAR TERM...JE
SHORT TERM...JE
LONG TERM...DS
AVIATION...DS
MARINE...JE/DS
HYDROLOGY...JE/DS
