138 
FXUS61 KOKX 230835
AFDOKX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service New York NY
435 AM EDT Fri May 23 2025

.SYNOPSIS...
Low pressure near Cape Cod will track into the Canadian
Maritimes today, then stall and gradually weaken through the 
weekend. Weak high pressure will build into the region on 
Monday and then slide east on Tuesday. Weak low pressure begins 
to approach from the Tennessee Valley midweek, possibly 
affecting the region mid or late week.

&&

.NEAR TERM /UNTIL 6 AM SATURDAY MORNING/...
LAPS analyzed a 990s low just E of Cape Cod early this mrng. 
Some light pockets of rain or sprinkles on radar rotating thru 
the cwa on the back side of the sys. As the pcpn associated with
the low dries up and exits the area this mrng, a jet streak 
approaches this aftn. With the cold pool aloft, steep lapse 
rates thru about h85. The NAM has some sbcape across srn areas 
where the clouds break up and temps rise into the 60s. With 
these ingredients, would expect at least some sct aftn shwrs, 
with a few low topped tstms possible. Some small hail possible 
with the cold air aloft but limited residence time. 

Shwrs should wane tngt as the BL cools, instability lessens,
and the jet streak exits. Skies may even become mostly clr
overnight. A wly flow however should keep the llvls mixed
sufficiently to prevent significant radiational cooling. If any
areas do decouple, lows could be 5-10 degrees colder in those 
spots than currently fcst. 

&&

.SHORT TERM /SATURDAY MORNING THROUGH SUNDAY NIGHT/...
Instability recharges on Sat with a slight warming trend across
the cwa. All areas progged to reach the 60s. Cold aloft with h85
blw 0C. With cyclonic flow aloft, feel the NAM is too dry, and
the NBM pops which are basically dry across the cwa too low. As
a result, went at least slight chance all areas during the day
on Sat. Coverage isold-sct, with a few low topped tstms again
possible. It will already be breezy with well mixed flow. Time
heights show unidirectional winds thru h2. Some enhanced gusts
possible with any convection with dcape around 200.

Any pcpn should again dissipate Sat ngt, and likely quickly.
Went with the NBM for temps which produces lows about 5 degrees
blw normal.

A drier fcst for Sun, but again cannot rule out a few aftn
shwrs. Did not stray from the NBM however at this stage, so most
of the cwa except for the nwrn corner has a dry fcst. Enough sun
and mixing expected to keep the warming trend going. Cool again
at night with lows in the 40s to around 50. Wouldn't be
surprised if the guidance trends a little lower based on the
current idea of better radiational cooling.

&&

.LONG TERM /MONDAY THROUGH THURSDAY/...
Good model agreement in mean troughing to start the week as Canadian 
Maritimes closed upper low gradually opens up and slides out to sea, 
followed by weak ridging albeit interrupted by a northern stream 
shortwave rotating through the area on Wed. Model spread increases 
in terms of upper level flow for mid-late week, based on interaction 
of a northern plains cutoff upper low and northern stream jet over 
Canada.

At the surface, weak high pressure builds into the region Mon and 
Tue, with dry conditions and temps near seasonable. Potential for a 
southern low to approach the region for midweek, but latest medium 
range model trend has been for a slower approach for late week, but 
will ultimately be predicated on earlier mention interaction of a 
northern plains cutoff upper low and northern stream jet over Canada.
Temps will also depend on mid to late week low pressure, generally 
running near to slight above seasonable if the low remains 
suppressed, otherwise a few degrees below normal if the low pressure 
system ends up affecting the region.

&&

.AVIATION /09Z FRIDAY THROUGH TUESDAY/...
Strong coastal low pressure slowly tracks up the New England
coast today, while another weak low over the eastern Great 
Lakes tracks east across New England, before both lift northeast
tonight. 

VFR conditions giving way to a return to MVFR cigs (patchy IFR) and 
isolated showers (MVFR vsby w/ -shra) across western terminals early 
this morning with approach of a weak trough, gradually spreading to 
KBDR and KISP after 12z. MVFR cigs continue through much of the day 
with iso to sct showers (MVFR vsby possible w/ -shra) mid morning 
thru mid afternoon, particularly for northern terminals. A slow 
improvement to VFR from SW to NE in the mid to late afternoon.

Light N winds for the morning push, give way to a SW or WSW wind
5 to 10 kt for a few hours in the morning ahead of approaching
trough, backing to the W and increasing to 10-14g15-20kt in its wake 
this afternoon, particularly western terminals. Gusts subside this 
evening, but winds likely remain in the 7 to 10 kt range.

  ...NY Metro (KEWR/KLGA/KJFK/KTEB) TAF Uncertainty...

MVFR conds in -shra likely for morning push. Low probability of IFR 
cigs between 10z and 15z. 

VFR conds for eve push, outside of iso/sct shra. Very low and sparse 
potential for a tsra btwn 22 and 02z.  

Light and variable wind for AM push, becoming SW/W. Occasional 
westerly gusts of 15 to 20 kt for this aft/eve push.

.OUTLOOK FOR 06Z SATURDAY THROUGH TUESDAY...

Late Tonight: VFR. W wind 10 to 15 kt with gust to 20 kt.

Saturday: VFR. W winds 15G20-25kt.

Sunday: MVFR. NW winds 10-15g20kt.

Monday: VFR. NW winds 10-15kt.

Tuesday: Mainly VFR, low end chance of MVFR in any showers/rain.

Detailed information, including hourly TAF wind component forecasts, 
can be found at: https:/www.weather.gov/zny/n90

&&

.MARINE...
Winds diminish this mrng, then increase again from the W this
aftn. Waves may fall blw sca lvls for a bit on the ocean, then
return again tngt. The sca was therefore extended thru tngt.
Winds may be close to sca lvls all waters on Sat. On the ocean,
seas will likely be aoa 5 ft. Lighter winds and subsiding seas 
expected Sun. Generally sub SCA conditions Mon thru Wed with 
weak pressure regime.

&&

.HYDROLOGY...
No hydrologic impacts expected thru the middle of next week.

&&

.TIDES/COASTAL FLOODING...
There is a high rip current risk today at ocean beaches with
seas elevated, especially in the mrng. The potential exists for
moderate to high on Sat as waves build again. The modeling 
indicates moderate risk Sun attm.

&&

.CLIMATE...
The following are the daily record low temperatures for today,
May 23rd:

NYC: 43/1963
JFK: 44/1963
LGA: 45/1963
EWR: 43/1931
BDR: 42/1963
ISP: 42/2006

&&

.OKX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CT...None.
NY...High Risk for Rip Currents through this evening for NYZ075-080-081-
     178-179.
NJ...None.
MARINE...Small Craft Advisory until 6 AM EDT Saturday for ANZ350-353-
     355.

&&

$$

SYNOPSIS...JMC/NV
NEAR TERM...JMC
SHORT TERM...JMC
LONG TERM...NV
AVIATION...NV
MARINE...JMC/NV
HYDROLOGY...JMC/NV
TIDES/COASTAL FLOODING...JMC
CLIMATE...
