008 
FXUS61 KOKX 010937
AFDOKX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service New York NY
537 AM EDT Tue Apr 1 2025

.SYNOPSIS...
High pressure builds across the region through Wednesday. A 
warm frontal passage occurs early Thursday. High pressure 
briefly builds in from the north on Friday. A frontal boundary 
near or over the region will bring unsettled conditions this 
weekend. The front should begin moving offshore early next week.

&&

.NEAR TERM /THROUGH TONIGHT/...
A cold front was just clear of Montauk at 9Z. Rain will 
continue to translate offshore this mrng as the front passes
further E. Increasing nwly winds with peak gusts around 35 kt 
per obs and 20-30kt of wind modeled thru 3000 ft agl. Subsidence
should help keep the breeze going thru the aftn hours, although
the strongest flow should be before 18Z. Deep mixing should 
produce the warmest temps at sea lvl today, particularly the S 
facing coasts. Went with the NBM numbers for highs. 

High pres ridges into the area tngt, with the center of the high 
strengthening over QC. Any significant mid clouds are modeled to 
not reach the cwa until close to 12Z. Despite the weak pres grad, 
this should help winds decouple for most areas overnight. As a 
result, went with a blend of the MOS for low temps, which was colder 
than the NBM.

&&

.SHORT TERM /WEDNESDAY THROUGH THURSDAY/...
Return flow sets up on Wed with thickening mid and high clouds. With 
the cool airmass reinforced by the llvl flow off the Atlc, highs in 
the 40s per the NBM seemed reasonable. 

Llvl moisture continues to increase Wed ngt ahead of an approaching 
warm front. As the theta-e ridge builds in, chances for shwrs to 
develop overnight, particularly late per the 00Z model timing. At 
the same time, stratus and fog are likely to develop with the 
advecting marine layer. 

The warm front lifts or jumps thru the cwa on Thu. Another 20-plus 
degree difference from W to E again as about 200-220 degree llvl 
flow develops. E cstl areas could get quite breezy with the synoptic 
flow enhanced by the differential heating component. Sustained winds 
around 20kt with gusts around 30 possible. With the jet over Canada 
and the sfc boundary N of the cwa, a completely dry aftn is possible 
and the fcst pops reflect this.

&&

.LONG TERM /THURSDAY NIGHT THROUGH MONDAY/...
Key Points:

*Confidence is increasing for mainly dry conditions.

*An unsettled pattern will then set up for the upcoming weekend with 
potential of improvement early next week. 

*Periods of showers are likely on Saturday and may continue at times 
Sunday into Sunday night. 

*Temperatures will generally run above normal through the period 
with Saturday having the greatest potential for below normal. 

Model guidance is slowly coming into better agreement for late this 
week into early next week. The greatest uncertainty lies with the 
exact timing and placement of a frontal boundary along with waves of 
low pressure riding along it for the upcoming weekend. 

The upper level pattern will consist of mean troughing over the 
western CONUS with a strong ridge over the southeast and Western 
Atlantic. The region will lie between these features with a series 
of mid level shortwaves and associated pieces of energy passing 
through into the weekend. The ridge looks to weaken late in the 
weekend and especially early next week as the mean upper trough 
settles over the eastern seaboard.

The first low pressure will be moving across southeastern Canada 
Thursday night helping to drag a cold front across the area. Showers 
are possible with the passage of the front Thursday night. Rainfall 
amounts on average should be a few hundredths to a few tenths. The 
front then sags south on Friday as high pressure briefly builds down 
from southern Canada. The high then retreats Friday night into 
Saturday as the aforementioned frontal boundary begins approaching 
as a warm front. The warm advection and energetic middle level flow 
will support the likelihood of showers on Saturday. There may be some 
weak waves along the front, which may continue the potential showers 
into Saturday night. The modeling then diverges with the placement 
of the warm front on Sunday. There is a chance the boundary lifts 
over or just north of the area. It is also possible the boundary 
stalls near or just south of Long Island. This results in greater 
uncertainty with temperatures and degree of instability, if any, for 
Sunday. The boundary lifting north could lead to an increase in 
instability for a portion of the area and a chance for a few 
thunderstorms. The boundary remaining south would likely limit 
instability and any thunderstorm potential. For now have continue to 
show a chance of showers through Sunday. Another wave of low 
pressure may also form to our southwest at some point Sunday into 
Sunday night and then pass over or near the area Sunday night. The 
low should be able to drag the boundary offshore to start next week 
with potential for improving conditions. The latest NBM probably 
for greater than 1 inch of rain in any 24 hour period this weekend 
is low and generally 10 percent or less.

&&

.AVIATION /10Z TUESDAY THROUGH SATURDAY/...
A cold front will continue passing across the terminals early this 
morning. High pressure then gradually builds in through tonight. 

Conditions will continue improving to VFR early this morning.
Showers will also taper off from west to east through 09z.

Winds will also shift to the NW behind the cold front passage and 
become gusty. Sustained speeds will become 10-15 kt with gusts 20-25 
kt. A few higher gusts up to 35 kt are possible immediately behind 
the cold front passage with peak gusts up to 30 kt for the rest of 
the morning. NW flow will then continue through this afternoon, 15-
20 kt with gusts around 25 kt. Gusts will end early this evening 
with sustained speeds weakening tonight as the direction veers to 
the N. 

 ...NY Metro (KEWR/KLGA/KJFK/KTEB) TAF Uncertainty... 

A few peak gusts up to 35 kt possible immediately behind the cold 
front passage through 08z. Peak gusts up to 30 kt for the rest of 
the morning.

End time of gusts this afternoon/early evening may be off by 1-2 
hours.  

.OUTLOOK FOR 06Z WEDNESDAY THROUGH SATURDAY...

Tuesday Night: VFR. 

Wednesday: Mainly VFR during most of the day. MVFR or lower possible 
at night with a chance of showers. SE wind gusts 15-20 kt afternoon 
into evening near the coast. 

Thursday: MVFR or lower with possible showers in the morning and 
then again at night.  SW wind gusts 15-20kt, highest along the coast 
day into evening.

Friday: MVFR possible early, then VFR.

Saturday: MVFR or lower with showers likely.

Detailed information, including hourly TAF wind component forecasts, 
can be found at: https:/www.weather.gov/zny/n90

&&

.MARINE...
A sca remains in effect for all waters today. Extended the end time 
on the protected waters thru the day. There could be an ocnl gust to 
35 kt thru around 14Z. The ocean stays at sca lvls tngt, then all 
waters stay blw sca lvls for most of Wed. Winds and waves quickly 
build Wed eve, with a sca likely needed on the ocean Wed ngt thru 
Thu. Winds may be close to criteria elsewhere on Thu.

Winds on the waters will remain below SCA levels Thursday night 
through Saturday. Seas on the ocean will likely be 5-7ft Thursday 
night, but should begin subsiding Friday morning with seas below 5 
ft late Friday through Saturday.

&&

.HYDROLOGY...
No hydrologic impacts are expected through the upcoming weekend.

&&

.TIDES/COASTAL FLOODING...
High tide has passed for coastal locations across Southern Fairfield 
and Southern Westchester. No additional coastal flooding is 
anticipated for the rest of the week.

&&

.OKX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CT...None.
NY...None.
NJ...None.
MARINE...Small Craft Advisory until 5 PM EDT this afternoon for ANZ331-
     332-335-338-340-345.
     Small Craft Advisory until 6 AM EDT Wednesday for ANZ350-353-
     355.

&&

$$

SYNOPSIS...JMC/DS
NEAR TERM...JMC
SHORT TERM...JMC
LONG TERM...DS
AVIATION...DS
MARINE...JMC/DS
HYDROLOGY...JMC/DS
TIDES/COASTAL FLOODING...
