920 
FXUS61 KOKX 171611
AFDOKX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service New York NY
1211 PM EDT Sat May 17 2025

.SYNOPSIS...
A cold front moves across the area late this evening. Low 
pressure slowly moves across New England on Sunday sending a 
secondary cold front across the area. The low slowly exits the 
New England coast on Monday as high pressure gradually builds in
from the northwest. High pressure takes control Monday night 
into early Tuesday night. A frontal system impacts the area 
Wednesday into Friday.

&&

.NEAR TERM /THROUGH TONIGHT/...
Forecast on track this afternoon. A pre-frontal trough will
continue pushing east of the area. A lingering shower out east
is possible through 2pm. 

Confidence with afternoon and evening convection remains low.
The weak shortwave associated with the aforementioned vorticity
will leave behind some subsidence as well as mid level dry air
this afternoon. Deeper mixing is also expected to develop, which
may also help mix out some of the higher dew points. Another 
limiting factor will be the most organized forcing remaining 
well to our north and west this afternoon and evening 
immediately ahead of the parent upper low and surface low over 
the Great Lakes. There is also a question of how much 
instability will exist this afternoon despite limited cloud 
cover, mainly due to the aforementioned dry air. Due to all of 
these factors, have lowered PoPs into the evening and placed 
the highest probabilities over the Lower Hudson Valley and 
interior SW CT. Any convection looks isolated further south and
east closer to the coast/Long Island and may just be associated
with the cold front passage this evening. 

The severe weather risk remains marginal as there is enough mid
level flow for shear supportive of updraft organization. The
main limiting factor again is with an organized trigger and the
amount of instability. While SPC has the area in a marginal
risk, think the probability for an isolated severe storm is
highest across the Lower Hudson Valley with the main threat from
damaging winds and potentially hail. 

Convection may linger towards or just after sunset with the cold
front passage, but the severe threat diminishes quickly with 
loss of heating. Any lingering showers should diminish through 
the rest of the evening. 

Highs in the middle to upper 70s to mid 80s are expected today.
Winds will likely gust 25 to 30 mph, especially across NE NJ, 
NYC metro, and the Lower Hudson Valley where mixing is 
maximized. 

The cold front pushes through likely just before or around midnight 
and will finally start to filter in a drier airmass in a westerly 
flow.

&&

.SHORT TERM /SUNDAY THROUGH MONDAY NIGHT/...
The upper level low will be centered to our north most of Sunday as 
it very gradually shifts east. Some energy rotating around the low 
will aid in pushing a secondary cold front through the area in the 
evening hours. Some light rain showers are possible with this 
feature, mainly across the interior. No thunder is forecast. Skies 
also likely fill in around 4 kft, leading to mostly cloudy 
conditions for the afternoon. In the cooler airmass, highs are 
forecast to be in the upper 60s to lower 70s.

Surface troughing could continue into Monday as the low lingers off 
the New England coast. Dry and sunny conditions are expected with 
similar high temperatures as Sunday.

Both days could be gusty with some deeper mixing each day. 25 to 30 
mph gusts are expected.

&&

.LONG TERM /TUESDAY THROUGH FRIDAY/...
Key Message:

 * A frontal system likely impacts the region beginning   Wednesday, 
and continues into Thursday, and possibly into Friday.

No significant changes were made to the forecast for Tuesday into 
the end of the week, as a frontal system remains likely to impact 
the region late Tuesday night into Friday. An upper closed low 
develop over the mid section into the upper Midwest by late Tuesday 
night, and then the upper trough deepens and the closed low and 
upper trough are slow to move eastward into the beginning of next 
weekend. At the surface a deepening low moves out of the Mid 
Mississippi Valley and into the Ohio Valley late Tuesday into 
Wednesday. This low then moves slowly across the northeast Thursday 
into Friday in association of the upper low becoming nearly 
stacked. With a secondary surface low developing late Wednesday 
into Wednesday night and increased precipitable waters values and 
lift, there is the potential for a period of moderate rainfall. 
Also, depending on the track of the low Thursday's temperatures are 
more uncertain. However, overall temperatures will be near or slightly 
below normal levels Tuesday through Friday.

&&

.AVIATION /16Z SATURDAY THROUGH WEDNESDAY/...
A warm front moves through the area during the day. A cold front
moves across the region late this evening.

IFR/LIFR conditions persist for KHPN, KBDR, KGON this morning
but should improve fairly quickly over the next few hours.
Otherwise, VFR expected outside of any showers or TSRA. -SHRA
possible at the NYC terminals through early afternoon. Some TSRA
have developed outside of the NYC terminals and may impact KHPN
and KSWF through 16Z/17Z. If these persist, KBDR may end up 
seeing TSRA by 16-17Z. 

Another low chance of additional SHRA or TSRA this afternoon,
though the best chance remains for KSWF. Kept PROB30 to convey
the expected isolated nature of the TSRA, if any form at all.

South winds this morning increase to 10-15kt with some gusts
17-23kt late morning through the afternoon. With a cold front 
passage late this evening winds shift to the W/NW, and may 
become gusty late tonight. Gusts are more likely during the day
Sunday.


 ...NY Metro (KEWR/KLGA/KJFK/KTEB) TAF Uncertainty...

A few light showers possible this morning, with no impacts to 
conditions. Thunderstorm chances for late day into the evening 
is low and continued the PROB30. There is a chance that thunder
does not occur.


.OUTLOOK FOR 15Z SUNDAY THROUGH WEDNESDAY...

Sunday: VFR. Slight chance of showers inland with MVFR 
possible. W winds G20-30kt.

Monday - Tuesday: VFR. Monday NW winds G20-25kt day into evening.

Wednesday: MVFR or lower with showers likely, a slight chance of
thunderstorms in the afternoon. E wind gusts 15-20kt.

Detailed information, including hourly TAF wind component forecasts, 
can be found at: https:/www.weather.gov/zny/n90

&&

.MARINE...
Conditions will remain below Small Craft Advisory levels for 
the most part into this evening. However, some nearshore gusts 
could reach 25 kt, mainly in the NY Harbor and western LI Sound.

Winds pick back up on Sunday and a Small Craft Advisory is in effect 
during the daylight hours. Gusts could reach 25 to 30 kt, with seas 
over the ocean reaching 4-5 ft. There is potential for the SCA to be 
extended through Monday as marginal conditions are expected.

Winds and seas remain below advisory levels on all the forecast 
waters Tuesday into Wednesday. With the approach of a frontal system 
during Wednesday and easterly flow will be increasing and by late 
day SCA conditions may develop on the ocean waters. With the 
increased and persistent east flow into Thursday winds and seas on 
the ocean waters will likely be at SCA levels. As low pressure 
tracks northeast of the area Thursday night a northerly flow 
develops and winds diminish, however, ocean seas are likely to 
remain elevated into Thursday night.

&&

.HYDROLOGY...
There are no hydrologic concerns through next week.

&&

.OKX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CT...None.
NY...None.
NJ...None.
MARINE...Small Craft Advisory from 6 AM to 6 PM EDT Sunday for ANZ331-
     332-335-338-340-345-350-353-355.

&&

$$

SYNOPSIS...MET/JT
NEAR TERM...DS/JT
SHORT TERM...JT
LONG TERM...MET
AVIATION...MW
MARINE...MET/JT
HYDROLOGY...MET/JT
