726 
FXUS61 KOKX 040945
AFDOKX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service New York NY
Issued by National Weather Service Mount Holly NJ
545 AM EDT Wed Jun 4 2025

.SYNOPSIS...
Offshore high pressure remains in place through early Thursday.
Thereafter, multiple areas of low pressure approach and move
near the area going through the weekend and into early next week.

&&

.NEAR TERM /UNTIL 6 PM THIS EVENING/...
High pressure in control today with sunny skies and dry
conditions. Gusty south winds will develop this afternoon as the
pressure gradient tightens over the area between high pressure
offshore and approaching low pressure from the west. A warm day
on tap with highs in the mid to upper 80s inland while coastal
areas remain in the 70s. 

&&

.SHORT TERM /6 PM THIS EVENING THROUGH 6 PM THURSDAY/...
For tonight, it will be the third night on onshore flow and
patchy fog and/or low stratus is possible late tonight into
early Thursday morning out east across Long Island and Southern
CT. Forecast lows well into the 60s.

Thursday, again, slight increase in 850mb temperatures so 
warming trend at the surface. However one mitigating factor will
be increasing clouds ahead of low pressure both from the west 
and from the south. Still expect highs to get well into 80s 
except along coast where highs will be near 80.

Dry conditions continue Thursday. 

&&

.LONG TERM /THURSDAY NIGHT THROUGH TUESDAY/...
The synoptic ridge pattern gradually shifts to more of a trough
structure with rain eventually returning to the forecast late 
week, for parts of the weekend as well as early next week. 

A cold front approaches from the west Thursday through early 
Friday. The front then returns back north thereafter and slows 
down heading into the weekend. This will become part of another 
low pressure system approaching from the southwest. This low's 
associated cold front moves near the area for the first half of 
the weekend with additional low pressure development along it.

The low and cold front move east of the area Sunday into Sunday
but another low and associated frontal system move near the area
for early next week.

Mainly dry conditions for Thursday night.

For Long Island and Southeast CT, possible patchy fog and low 
level stratus again for late Thursday night into Friday morning.

Showers and thunderstorms more probable Friday through Friday night. 
Closer to the coast, thunderstorms mostly slight chance with more 
maritime influence.

Highest chances of showers Saturday through Saturday night. 
Thunderstorms possible as well, but relatively higher chance away 
from the coast.

Chances for showers decrease Sunday into Sunday night but increase 
thereafter for early next week.

Think fog will be more prevalent late Friday night into 
Saturday morning, have patchy fog for entire area.

For rest of temperatures, another quite warm day forecast Friday
with highs well into the 80s but relatively cooler trend 
thereafter for weekend into early next week with daytime highs 
more in the 70s. Flow becomes more northerly Sunday and then
more easterly early next week.

&&

.AVIATION /10Z WEDNESDAY THROUGH SUNDAY/...
High pressure remains offshore through tonight.

VFR.

Southwest winds 5 to 10 kt this morning will increase to 10 to
15 kt this afternoon with occasional gusts to 20 kt. Winds
diminish to 5 kt or less tonight, and may go LGT/VRB. Possible 
brief MVFR/IFR east of NYC terminals late tonight through early
Thursday morning in fog/stratus. SW wind gusts 15-20kt Thursday
afternoon into early evening.

Smoke aloft from Canadian wildfires remains over the western 
terminals through today. However, low level visibility will not
be impacted.

 ...NY Metro (KEWR/KLGA/KJFK/KTEB) TAF Uncertainty... 

Gusts up to 20kt, this afternoon, as gusts may be occasional. 

.OUTLOOK FOR 06Z THURSDAY THROUGH SUNDAY... 

Friday: Possible MVFR/IFR with chance of showers/tstms. 
Possible brief MVFR/IFR east of NYC terminals early Friday 
morning in fog/stratus. SW wind gusts 15-20kt possible in the 
afternoon to early evening.

Saturday: Possible MVFR/IFR with showers likely. Chance of  
tstms. Patchy fog early Saturday.

Sunday: Slight chance of a shower. MVFR possible. Otherwise 
mainly VFR.

Detailed information, including hourly TAF wind component 
forecast, can be found at: https:/www.weather.gov/zny/n90

&&

.MARINE...
No changes to winds and seas at this time.

Conditions expected to remain below SCA thresholds on all 
waters through Friday night. Gusts to 20 kt develop each day on 
most waters mid to late week. Some occasional 25 kt gusts will 
be possible.

Winds remain below SCA thresholds thereafter through the
upcoming weekend. However, with the continued SW fetch, seas
will build on the ocean with the forecast showing some 5 ft
ocean seas for this weekend. So, SCA will be possible.

&&

.HYDROLOGY...
No hydrologic concerns through Thursday. Thereafter, with an
increasingly humid and warm airmass in place, layer PW gradually
increase. PW values approach 1.5 inches Thursday night and
eventually reach near 1.75 inches Saturday. This will allow for
any thunderstorms to easily produce heavy downpours. This would
lead to potential minor flooding in low lying, urban, and poor 
drainage areas with excessive runoff. There is a marginal flood 
risk for Saturday through Saturday night.

&&

.TIDES/COASTAL FLOODING...
There is a low risk for the development of rip currents at the
NYC, Nassau, and Southwestern Suffolk ocean beaches today, and 
a moderate risk at the Southeastern Suffolk ocean beaches. A 
moderate risk is forecast for Thursday at all the ocean beaches.

&&

.OKX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CT...Air Quality Alert from 11 AM this morning to 11 PM EDT this 
     evening for CTZ005>011.
NY...Air Quality Alert from 11 AM this morning to 11 PM EDT this 
     evening for NYZ067>075-176-178.
NJ...Air Quality Alert from 11 AM this morning to 11 PM EDT this 
     evening for NJZ002-004-006-103>108.
MARINE...None.

&&

$$

SYNOPSIS...JM
NEAR TERM...JM/MET/MPS
SHORT TERM...JM/MPS
LONG TERM...JM 
AVIATION...MET/MPS
MARINE...JM/MET/MPS 
HYDROLOGY...JM 
TIDES/COASTAL FLOODING...Staff
