204 
FXUS61 KOKX 122125
AFDOKX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service New York NY
525 PM EDT Thu Jun 12 2025

.SYNOPSIS...
A cold front slowly pushes through tonight and stalls just south of 
the area on Friday. A weak low pushes along the boundary late 
Friday night and pushes through early on Saturday. High pressure
off the New England coast tries to build towards the area 
Sunday into Monday as waves of low pressure move along the 
stalled boundary to our south. The high weakens on Tuesday 
allowing the front to begin returning northward through next 
Thursday.

&&

.NEAR TERM /THROUGH FRIDAY/...
A cold front approaches and pushes through during the overnight.
There is still a conditional threat of isolated showers and
thunderstorms this evening. However, the greater MLCAPE resides
over central PA where some convective development has begun
along the instability gradient and frontal boundary. There is 
lingering MLCIN across the area which has capped off any 
significant cumulus development so far further east. Forecast 
soundings continue to show a mid level cap and overall the 
forcing with the front is very weak. If a storm does develop, it
would likely contain strong gusty winds with solid DCAPE 
values, along with the potential for hail. The 20 percent chance
remains for the western portion of the area during the early to
mid evening, with another slight chance PoP time period for a 
more widespread portion of the region into Friday morning. 
Temperatures overnight will average close to or just above the 
seasonal norms with mainly 60s for lows.

Questions remain abound for the day Friday. The cold front
which is progged to move through Thursday night is not progged 
to get very far to the south and is expected to stall nearby, 
perhaps just to the immediate south. At the same time high 
pressure attempts to ridge down, at least temporary from the 
northwest before the next impulse attempts to approach from the 
west towards late in the day and evening. Also the upper level 
jet gets further downstream to the northeast as the region 
should get in-between any mid and upper level support / forcing 
mechanisms. Low end chance to slight chance PoPs appear prudent 
for the day Friday, although the consensus of NWP guidance keeps
the region dry much of the day. More of an onshore flow is 
expected into Friday afternoon with some uncertainty as to how 
much the onshore flow can penetrate into western most areas. 
With some cloud cover and more of an onshore flow temperatures 
should be cooler with mainly upper half of the 70s to lower 80s 
for daytime highs.

&&

.SHORT TERM /FRIDAY NIGHT THROUGH SATURDAY/...
During Friday night with the frontal boundary stalled nearby and 
perhaps just south of the area expect disturbances to more or less 
ride along the boundary. Occasional showers looks to take place 
during Friday night. The column is forecast to saturate further into 
later in the overnight and into early Saturday morning. Instability 
appears to be limited Friday night into Saturday, thus will carry 
high end chance to low end likely PoPs for weather across the region 
late Friday night into Saturday morning. During the day Saturday it 
doesn't appear to be a complete washout, as after the disturbance 
from the morning gets through most NWP guidance suggests a relative 
break or pause in any shower activity. Thus, have included low end 
chance PoPs Saturday afternoon. Suffice it to say that the start of 
the weekend will feature more in the way of clouds, with a period or 
two of unsettled weather with the potential for showers. With the 
onshore flow progged to continue on Saturday with a E-ENE wind in 
the boundary layer expect temperatures to average below normal. Max 
temperatures will likely only reach the upper 60s to perhaps some 
lower and middle lower 70s.

&&

.LONG TERM /SATURDAY NIGHT THROUGH THURSDAY/...
No significant changes were made to the long term Saturday night 
through next Thursday.

Key Points:

*While there is a chance for showers through the period, it will
not be a complete washout.

*Difficult to time waves of low pressure and moisture interactions 
with the stalled boundary to our south will  ultimately determine 
when/if showers occur across parts of the  area Saturday night 
through early next week. 

*The stalled boundary starts retreated northward later Tuesday 
through Thursday continuing the chance for showers, possibly a 
thunderstorm. 

*Temperatures will average below normal Sunday and Monday then 
return to more seasonably warm levels Tuesday with potential of 
warmer than normal conditions mid to late week. 

The region will lie on the southern periphery of the westerlies for 
much of the long term period with ridging holding across the 
southern US. A frontal boundary will remain stalled across the 
Middle Atlantic. The main forecast challenge Saturday night through 
Monday will be from difficult to time waves of low pressure on the 
stalled front as well as an subtle shortwaves in the middle level 
flow. Surface ridging will also try to take hold over the area, 
which may limit how much shower activity can develop. Model trends 
have been leaning in this direction, especially for Sunday into 
Monday with increasing chances for mostly dry conditions. The upper 
ridging may start building along the eastern seaboard Tuesday and 
Wednesday allowing the boundary to lift back to the north as a warm 
front. A more organized shortwave may then start approaching towards 
next Thursday which may also bring in another cold front, but this 
remains uncertain given it is a week out.

Rainfall amounts and any impacts appear limited at this time with 
any greater chance of convection potentially occurring mid week as 
conditions warm up and instability starts increasing. There will 
likely be adjustments to PoPs and timing of any potential convection 
once the mesoscale environment becomes better resolved.

&&

.AVIATION /21Z THURSDAY THROUGH TUESDAY/...
A weak cold front slowly passes through early this evening.

VFR. Only an isolated shower/thunderstorm at most will be
possible until 01-02z. Still can't rule out a shower and iso 
TSTM later tonight into the Friday morning push as well, however
confidence is not high enough to include in TAFs at this time. 

W to SW winds 10-15kt with gusts 16-20kt. Winds then shift NW-N
this evening.

 NY Metro (KEWR/KLGA/KJFK/KTEB) TAF Uncertainty...

Showers/tstms may be only isolated at most or not occur at all.

Chance that KJFK does not shift to around 210 true late this
afternoon. If winds do shift more southerly, winds could shift 
back to SW-W near 23-00z.

Winds may vary from around 220 through 300 true all afternoon 
for KEWR/KTEB/KLGA.

Shift to NNW-N for all terminals may be off by 1-2 hours.

.OUTLOOK FOR 18Z FRIDAY THROUGH TUESDAY... 

Friday aftn/evening: VFR.

Friday overnight-Saturday: MVFR/IFR with chance of showers.

Sunday: MVFR with showers possible.

Monday: Chance of showers and MVFR/IFR.

Tuesday: Mainly VFR.

Detailed information, including hourly TAF wind component forecasts, 
can be found at: https:/www.weather.gov/zny/n90

&&

.MARINE...
Sub advisory conditions are anticipated for all waters through the 
first half of the weekend. Ocean seas generally hold at 2 to 3 ft 
with a relaxed pressure gradient and a light onshore flow. Winds 
and seas are expected to remain below SCA levels from Saturday 
night through next Tuesday with a weak pressure gradient in place.

&&

.HYDROLOGY...
No hydrologic impacts expected through the middle of next week.

&&

.TIDES/COASTAL FLOODING...
The rip current risk is low on Friday with a light easterly 
flow and limited swell. There is a moderate rip current risk on 
Saturday with increasing easterly flow and building seas 3 to 4 
ft.

&&

.OKX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CT...None.
NY...Air Quality Alert until midnight EDT tonight for NYZ067>075-
     078>081-176>179.
NJ...Air Quality Alert until 11 PM EDT this evening for NJZ004-006-
     103>108.
MARINE...None.

&&

$$

SYNOPSIS...JE/DS
NEAR TERM...JE/DS
SHORT TERM...JE
LONG TERM...DS
AVIATION...JC
MARINE...JE/DS
HYDROLOGY...JE/DS
TIDES/COASTAL FLOODING...
