470 
FXUS61 KOKX 271807
AFDOKX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service New York NY
107 PM EST Thu Feb 27 2025

.SYNOPSIS...
A cold front pushes through this evening, followed by high 
pressure building in overnight, lingering into tomorrow. Low 
pressure passes to our north Saturday sending another warm front
our way Friday night followed by another cold front midday into
afternoon Saturday. High pressure builds in from the west for 
the rest of the weekend into early next week. The high pressure 
moves offshore towards the middle of next week, followed by an 
approaching strong frontal system thereafter.

&&

.NEAR TERM /UNTIL 6 PM THIS EVENING/...
Additional shower chances with the cdfnt this aftn and eve, 
although instability is lacking. Increased pops to categorical 
across wrn Orange County.

Overall, expecting less than a tenth of an inch of QPF through
the evening for southern areas, such as Long Island. Areas in 
the interior should still see amounts above 0.10" but likely no 
more than 0.25". 

SW winds before the cold front arrives with occasional gusts
around 20 kt possible, mainly along the coast.

&&

.SHORT TERM /6 PM THIS EVENING THROUGH SATURDAY/...
Clouds clear and things dry out early tonight as the cold front 
exits east and high pressure begins to settle in. Lows will be in 
the mid/upper-30s tonight with some slight cold air advection from 
the west, but these temps are still above average.

W/WNW winds will pick up closer to daybreak on Friday as the 
pressure gradient from the low departing over the Canadian Maritimes 
increases. Winds eventually relax as high pressure becomes more 
centered over the area Friday afternoon, weakening the pressure 
gradient. Highs on Friday will be a little cooler than previous days 
in the 40s. 

Heights drop Friday night into Saturday as a longwave trough 
approaches from the west. An Alberta Clipper Low located over the 
Great Lakes Friday night eventually passes to our east and northeast 
on Saturday. This low brings another warm front through Friday night 
and a cold front Saturday, sometime around the midday timeframe, 
based on the latest model guidance. 

Forcing looks best with warm air advection and positive vorticity 
advection Friday night for precipitation. Better chances for 
precipitation are in the interior with only slight chances towards 
the southern part of the area, given the distance from the low and 
the best forcing. Its possible we see a rain-snow mix in the 
interior Friday night before temps warm, but most should see just 
rain. 

The cold front, which looks to arrive midday Saturday, has much 
lower chances for precipitation given that model guidance has dry 
air filtering in before the cold front's arrival. Saturday may stay 
dry for most, with only slight chances for rain in the interior. 

Temperatures cool Saturday afternoon and evening following the 
passage of the cold front as a longwave trough aloft settles over 
the northeast with drying air.

&&

.LONG TERM /SATURDAY NIGHT THROUGH WEDNESDAY/...
Key Points

* Significant temperature decrease Saturday night with lows by 
  Sunday morning in the teens to mid 20s.

* Below normal highs Sunday and Monday staying in the 30s on average.

* Temperatures trending warmer for midweek, returning to above 
  normal.

* Heavy rain possibility for midweek system next week.

Mid level trough remains over the region for the rest of the 
weekend. The trough moves east of the region Monday. Ridging takes 
over through midweek and then goes offshore. Deep trough 
approaches Wednesday into Wednesday night next week.

Dry conditions prevail for Saturday night through early next week 
with high pressure gaining more control. Strengthening frontal
system approaches for midweek as high pressure moves farther
offshore.

Precipitation chances return to the forecast for Tuesday night 
through Wednesday night. This will be all in form of rain. 

POPs are already pretty high with this event, a strong incoming 
frontal system. Lots of meridional southerly flow ahead of it, so 
rain showers could be heavy at times. Still too early for exact 
timing and rainfall amounts. However, LREF model precipitable
water increases to near 1 inch with GFS showing values a little
above 1 inch for Wednesday next week.

&&

.AVIATION /18Z THURSDAY THROUGH TUESDAY/...
A cold front passes through this evening. 

VFR. Showers until around sundown. SW winds becoming WSW early
this evening, then WNW by midnight. Gusts around 20kt for a few
hours this evening. Gusts then return near 14z Friday from the
WNW 20-25kt.


  NY Metro (KEWR/KLGA/KJFK/KTEB) TAF Uncertainty...

SW winds at flight level 2,000 ft averaging around 45 kt until
around 20z today.

.OUTLOOK FOR 18Z FRIDAY THROUGH TUESDAY...

Friday afternoon: VFR. WNW winds gust 20kt early.

Saturday: VFR. WNW winds gust 25-30kt PM.

Sunday: VFR. NW winds G15-20kt. 

Monday-Tuesday: VFR. 

Detailed information, including hourly TAF wind component forecasts, 
can be found at: https:/www.weather.gov/zny/n90

&&

.MARINE...
Increasing S flow ahead of an approaching cold front will bring SCA 
conditions to the ocean waters today with gusts 25-30 kt and 
and seas building to 7-10 ft. Elsewhere, expect marginal SCA 
conditions across the eastern bays, eastern sound (east of the 
CT River),and Great South Bay during the daytime hours. Winds 
diminish in the evening, but seas will remain high.

Small craft conditions should carry though a good portion of Friday 
with ocean seas ranging from 4 to 6 ft as any small craft gusts on 
the ocean diminish by afternoon. A brief period of sub advisory 
conditions is likely late Friday afternoon and evening before small 
craft conditions return as a southerly flow increases into Saturday 
morning. Small craft seas will be in place on the ocean Saturday 
with marginal small craft gusts likely on a portion of the non-ocean 
waters.

Long term, Saturday night through Monday night, non-ocean zones 
below SCA. Ocean SCA conditions probable Saturday night into Sunday. 
Sunday night through Monday night, sub-SCA conditions forecast for 
all waters.

&&

.HYDROLOGY...
No issues expected through early next week. Too much uncertainty for 
any specific rain amounts or potential impacts regarding middle of 
next week.

&&

.OKX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CT...None.
NY...None.
NJ...None.
MARINE...Small Craft Advisory until 7 PM EST this evening for ANZ332.
     Small Craft Advisory until 4 PM EST this afternoon for ANZ340-
     345.
     Small Craft Advisory until 10 PM EST Friday for ANZ350-353-355.

&&

$$

AVIATION...JC
