429 
FXUS61 KOKX 131017
AFDOKX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service New York NY
617 AM EDT Wed Aug 13 2025

.SYNOPSIS...
A cold front approaches today into tonight. The front then 
slowly moves across the region on Thursday. The front moves 
offshore Thursday night. High pressure will then build across 
the area from Southeast Canada thereafter into the start of the
weekend. High pressure builds over the region through Saturday,
before another cold front approaches from the Great Lakes on 
Sunday, moving through Sunday night. The front may then stall 
nearby as high pressure attempts to return from the north early 
next week.

&&

.NEAR TERM /THROUGH TONIGHT/...
Going into this morning, low clouds and some patchy fog are
present across eastern portions of the region, Southeast CT and
Eastern Long Island. This should dissipate with greater diurnal
heating later on this morning.

A cold front approaches the region today. This cold front
approaches western parts of the region by late today into
tonight. There is not much forcing with the front. Bulk shear 
0-6 km AGL max near 20 kt and surface CAPE max near 1000 to 
2000 J/kg, so not expecting much severity with thunderstorms.
However, models do indicate some small areas with bulk shear 0-6
km AGL closer to 25 kt and if higher CAPE such as NAM pans out,
thunderstorms could grow taller and stronger. A marginal threat
severe thunderstorm therefore exists across the region today
into this evening, with potential for severe downbursts. These 
thunderstorms could also easily produce heavy rain considering 
near 2 inches PWATs predicted over the region.

The SW flow continues today which could become gusty along the coast 
this afternoon. The southerly winds decrease tonight and begin to 
shift more westerly into early Thursday.

In terms of thunderstorms, they look most probable this
afternoon into this evening, then shift to be more offshore late
tonight. Pre-frontal trough and interactions with any sea 
breeze could make for initiation of convection. For late 
tonight, patchy fog could develop with the moisture laden 
boundary layer. Showers chances this afternoon will remain 
through the night for much of the area.

Concerning the temperatures and heat indices, the forecast used the 
NBM for the max temperatures but a blend of MET MOS, MAV MOS and NBM 
for the dewpoints as dewpoints from NBM along seemed too high. Max 
temperatures are overall pretty similar to the previous day although 
the immediate coastlines are slightly cooler. Max temperatures range 
from near 80 to near 90. Max heat indices are in the mid to upper 
90s for parts of NYC, parts of Northeast NJ, parts of the Lower
Hudson Valley as well as parts of Southern CT. Otherwise, 
mostly lower 90s for max heat indices. Taking the previous day 
heat indices into account (just lower 90s max heat indices
mostly), conditions are expected to remain below heat advisory 
thresholds across the area today. We are not getting the 2 days
in a row of 95 to 99 degree heat index.

&&

.SHORT TERM /THURSDAY THROUGH FRIDAY NIGHT/...
Cold front eventually moves through the region Thursday and
offshore into the evening hours. There will still be chances 
for showers and thunderstorms remain across the region.

With a lack of bulk shear (max appears to be near 20 kt 0-6 km 
AGL) as well as CAPE limited to near 1000 to 1500 J/kg not 
expecting any severe thunderstorms. However, lessening steering 
flow aloft will allow for slower moving thunderstorms and for 
multiple rounds of showers and thunderstorms. Hydrology will be 
more of an issue with these showers and thunderstorms on 
Thursday. Slow moving front and enhanced low convergence along 
the front will make for larger aggregate areas of showers and 
thunderstorms.

Because of this, went a little lower with max temperatures. For
parts of the region, northerly flow develops which will help 
limit dewpoints. 

Overall expecting a cooler but still somewhat humid day. Max 
temperatures range within the 80s, highest around NYC Metro and 
parts of the interior, upper 80s. Max heat indices with dewpoints 
mainly upper 60s to near 70, mainly lower 90s. 

High pressure from Southeast Canada builds into the region Thursday 
night through Friday night. Mainly dry conditions are expected 
Thursday night. Dry conditions are expected Friday through Friday 
night.

Flow becomes more northerly Thursday night and then more
easterly Friday and Friday night. Lower dewpoints are expected,
down more in the 60s. Temperatures Friday will be similar to
those of Thursday but the lower dewpoints make for heat indices
nearly the same as the actual temperature. Low temperatures
trend cooler Friday night (near 60 to near 70) compared to 
Thursday night (low 60s to low 70s).

&&

.LONG TERM /SATURDAY THROUGH TUESDAY/...
No significant changes made and the NBM was followed for this 
period.

Relatively quiet and pleasant start to the weekend with ridging in 
place and surface high pressure building over the region. Dry 
conditions prevail Saturday as a result, with temperatures close to 
normal for mid August, generally low to mid 80s. The high shifts 
offshore and flow in the low levels becomes SW Saturday night. A 
cold front begins to advance south and east toward the region Sunday 
as broad troughing slides east over Canada. This introduces the next 
chance for showers and thunderstorms by Sunday afternoon as a 
prefrontal trough moves in. The SW flow helps advect in some warmer 
air ahead of the boundary, and Sunday looks to be the hottest day of 
the period, with upper 80s and low 90s for most away from the coast. 
Doesn't appear at this point though that sufficient moisture in the 
BL will be present to allow for super sultry conditions, so heat 
indices near or just above those air temperatures wouldn't warrant 
a heat advisory as it stands now.

While high pressure attempts to build in behind the frontal passage, 
the boundary appears likely to linger nearby early next week as a 
broader trough remains in place over eastern Canada and extends into 
the Northeast, keeping ridging to the west. A developing frontal 
wave off to the west could keep chances for precip at times Monday 
and Tuesday, but confidence at this point is low.

&&

.AVIATION /10Z WEDNESDAY THROUGH SUNDAY/...
A cold front approaches from the Great Lakes into tonight, moving 
through on Thursday.

Mainly VFR to start, exception being possible MVFR/IFR cigs and 
vsbys at a few terminals this morning, primarily KGON, though 
could work into KBDR, KISP, and KHPN as well. Approaching cold 
front introduces chances for scattered showers and thunderstorms
this afternoon and evening. Thunderstorm threat generally 
between 19Z on the early side through around 3Z Thu, with some 
lingering showers possible overnight. Best chance for TSRA at 
NYC terminals between 20Z and 1Z.

Light SW flow increases toward 10 kt or so by late morning, 
backing more to the S by afternoon. Flow lightens tonight once 
again and goes vrb at most terminals.

 ...NY Metro (KEWR/KLGA/KJFK/KTEB) TAF Uncertainty...

Outside chance for MVFR cigs/vsbys this morning before 12Z.

Timing of aft/eve convection may be off by an hour or two.

.OUTLOOK FOR 06Z THURSDAY THROUGH SUNDAY... 

Late tonight: Chance of a few lingering showers with MVFR conds 
possible.

Thursday: Mainly VFR. Chance of showers and thunderstorms. 

Thursday night-Sunday: VFR. 

Detailed information, including hourly TAF wind component forecasts, 
can be found at: https:/www.weather.gov/zny/n90

&&

.MARINE...
The pressure gradient will be rather weak through tonight and
into the start of the weekend. Conditions on the waters are
expected to remain below small craft advisory (SCA) thresholds.

With a weak pressure gradient in place, winds and seas are expected 
to remain below SCA criteria this weekend and early next week.

&&

.HYDROLOGY...
Minor nuisance flooding within urban, low-lying, and poor
drainage areas is possible with heavy showers and thunderstorms
this afternoon through Thursday. Tonight into Thursday,
thunderstorms slow down and front enters the region, making for
an elevated flooding threat. 

Excessive rainfall outlook depicts marginal flood threat for
interior areas today into tonight and then more of the local 
region for Thursday. HREF does depict some possibility for 
rainfall rates to reach near 1 inch per hour for parts of the
region.

PWATS near 2 inches and slower thunderstorm movement as well as
training of cells will enable for multiple periods of heavy
showers and thunderstorms. There is a very low probability for 
flash flooding. Though, any flash flooding should be quite 
localized.

Overall basin averaged rainfall amounts forecast range from 
near a quarter to near 1 inch of rainfall this afternoon through
early Thursday evening.

Otherwise, there are no significant hydrological concerns
thereafter through early next week.

&&

.TIDES/COASTAL FLOODING...
Moderate risk of rip currents is forecast across all the ocean
beaches today and a low risk of rip current is forecast for all
ocean beaches on Thursday.

An onshore swell closer to 2 ft today is expected to lower by
around 1 foot for Thursday. Winds will also be much lighter on
Thursday and variable in direction compared to today when a more
steady southerly onshore flow of near 10-12 kt is forecast.

&&

.OKX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CT...Air Quality Alert from 11 AM this morning to 11 PM EDT this 
     evening for CTZ005>007.
NY...None.
NJ...None.
MARINE...None.

&&

$$

SYNOPSIS...JM/DR
NEAR TERM...JM
SHORT TERM...JM
LONG TERM...DR
AVIATION...DR
MARINE...JM/DR
HYDROLOGY...JM/DR
TIDES/COASTAL FLOODING...JM
