140 
FXUS61 KOKX 041732
AFDOKX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service New York NY
1232 PM EST Sat Jan 4 2025

.SYNOPSIS...
The region remains between low pressure to the north and east with 
high pressure to the south and west through this weekend. A quick 
moving low pressure system passes through the Mid Atlantic on Monday 
and offshore Monday night. Behind it, strong Canadian high 
pressure builds in from the west through late next week.

&&

.NEAR TERM /THROUGH TONIGHT/...
Updated the fcst to increase winds, otherwise the fcst is on
track. A tight pressure gradient continues with broad low 
pressure to our north and east, and broad high pressure to our 
south and west. WNW flow may be able to transport some lake 
effect flurries. Highs in the mid 30s for coastal areas and low 
30s inland. Wind gusts of mostly 30 to 40 mph today with a gust
or two up to around 45 mph possible. Wind chills in the lower 
to mid 20s this afternoon. Dry for the overnight hours with 
diminishing winds. Lows generally in the 20s.

&&

.SHORT TERM /SUNDAY THROUGH MONDAY NIGHT/...
Not much of a change in the surface features for Sunday although 
high pressure to our south and west weakens as low pressure 
strengthens in the lower MS Valley. This will promote winds a little 
lighter than today over here. Highs again in the mid 30s for coastal 
areas and low 30s inland.

Models remain in very good agreement regarding low pressure which 
will be passing to our south Monday into Monday night. A trough axis 
aloft with an embedded shortwave will shift east through the OH and 
TN Valleys. This will strengthen a surface low which will emerge off 
the NC coast late in the day Monday into Monday evening and shift 
more east than northeast through the night as the trough doesn't 
become negatively tilted until late at night. The 00z run of several 
global models have either kept virtually the same storm track or 
shifted slightly south from their 12z counterparts yesterday. A 
shift south in the northern extent of qpf is a overall a little more 
noticeable. Still have likely PoPs for most of the city, south shore 
of LI, and some of NE NJ, but the liquid qpf and snow amount 
forecasts are a little lower from the previous forecast. Most spots 
are likely to see less than an inch of snow. Most of southern CT and 
the Lower Hudson Valley stand a decent chance of not receiving 
snowfall. Snow looks to be most likely from mid-late morning Monday 
through late afternoon, possibly lingering into early evening. Dry 
then afterwards with the storm heading farther east out to sea. 
Highs Monday in the upper 20s to lower 30s.

&&

.LONG TERM /TUESDAY THROUGH FRIDAY/...
Key Points:

* Cold, windy, and predominantly dry conditions expected mid to
  late next week. 

In the wake of passing low pressure to the south, strong Canadian 
surface high drops south out into the Plains, then begins to build 
east into late week. This will not only reinforce the cold air mass
in place, but maintain a tight pressure gradient between the high
and sprawling low pressure anchored over far eastern Canada. With
it, blustery conditions are likely Tuesday thru at least Thursday.
And while temperatures will not necessarily be record breaking,
the air mass will run about 10 degrees below normal and keep most
at or below the freezing mark for at least several days. Add 
the wind component and the region could experience wind chills 
persistently in the single digits and teens.

By late next week, a closed low over the Southwest may eject east 
and attempt to interact with a northern branch disturbance diving 
south. Many different solutions at this point, but will be a period 
to watch for the next chance of appreciable precipitation should 
timing of these features line up.

&&

.AVIATION /18Z SATURDAY THROUGH THURSDAY/...
A sprawling area of low pressure remains centered well to the
northeast this weekend, continuing the W/NW flow.

VFR through the TAF period.

W flow this afternoon 15-20G30-35kt. Speeds lower slightly this
evening and overnight into Sunday AM, but gusts up to 20 to 25 
kt persist at all terminals. Gusts approach 30 kt once again by 
mid morning Sunday and remain there through the afternoon.

 ...NY Metro (KEWR/KLGA/KJFK/KTEB) TAF Uncertainty...

A few gusts up to 40 kt possible through the afternoon.

OUTLOOK FOR 18Z SUNDAY THROUGH THURSDAY...

Sunday Afternoon: VFR. WNW gusts 25-30kt.

Monday: MVFR/IFR possible at the NYC metro terminals and KISP 
with snow.

Tuesday through Thursday: VFR. NW winds 15-20kt with daytime 
gusts 25-30kt.

Detailed information, including hourly TAF wind component forecasts, 
can be found at: https:/www.weather.gov/zny/n90

&&

.MARINE...
A gale wrng has been issued for today, then SCA conditions 
expected on all waters through Sunday with a persistent gusty 
WNW flow. Winds diminish Sunday night with a weaker pressure 
gradient with advisory conditions ending by late at night. Next 
chance of advisory conditions then arrives Monday night with 
northerly winds picking up in the wake of low pressure passing 
well to the SE.

Small Craft Advisory conditions are even more likely Tuesday, 
continuing through late next week for all waters with gusty NW 
flow. Possible gale force gusts on the ocean at times Tuesday 
thru Thursday. Given the flow's persistence, seas on the ocean 
likely rise to 7 to 8 feet midweek. Waves on the LI Sound may 
also reach 5 to 6 feet

&&

.HYDROLOGY...
No significant hydrologic issues anticipated through the end of
next week.

&&

.OKX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CT...None.
NY...None.
NJ...None.
MARINE...Gale Warning until 4 PM EST this afternoon for ANZ331-332-335-
     338-340-345-350-353-355.
     Small Craft Advisory from 4 PM this afternoon to 7 PM EST 
     Sunday for ANZ331-332-335-338-340-345-350-353-355.

&&

$$

SYNOPSIS...JC/DR
NEAR TERM...JMC/JC
SHORT TERM...JC
LONG TERM...DR
AVIATION...JT
MARINE...JMC/JC
HYDROLOGY...JC/DR
