777 
FXUS61 KOKX 050842
AFDOKX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service New York NY
442 AM EDT Mon May 5 2025

.SYNOPSIS...
A stalled frontal boundary remains within the area through Tuesday. 
The front regains movement to the north Tuesday night. The 
system will then pass through on Wednesday. A cold front will 
approach from the northwest on Thursday and stall nearby 
Thursday night as low pressure develops along it over the Mid 
Atlantic region. The low will then pass slowly south of Long 
Island on Friday and east of New England next weekend. Another 
cold front may approach from the northwest on Sunday.

&&

.NEAR TERM /UNTIL 6 PM THIS EVENING/...
Mid and upper level cutoff low continue to slowly approach from the 
west. At the surface, a frontal boundary settles within the area, 
stalling out.

Through today, rain is expected to increase in coverage and 
intensity. CAMs depict increases in reflectivity in various sized 
areas over different parts of the region.

Low level forcing increases today, allowing for greater convergence 
and lift. Some easterly wind gusts near 20 to 25 mph are forecast. 
Instability lowers today with some cooling in lower levels. However, 
PWATs still near 1.5 inches.

Minor flooding will become more probable with the training of cells 
as parallel low is present from lower to upper levels. Flash 
flooding still just a slight chance or isolated in coverage.

Max temperatures a blend of CONSraw and NBM but limited to no 
more than 63 degrees Fahrenheit. 

&&

.SHORT TERM /6 PM THIS EVENING THROUGH TUESDAY NIGHT/...
Mid and upper level cutoff low continue to approach from the west 
tonight through Tuesday night. 

Low level southeasterly winds relatively higher across Long 
Island and Southern CT tonight. Low level winds maxima shift 
farther east of the region Tuesday into Tuesday night.

Upper level southerly winds increase tonight into Tuesday. For 
this time period, the upper level jet streak right rear quadrant
approaches, eventually moving into western parts of the region.

Elevated instability as shown by model near zero values of Showalter 
Indices develops across the region late tonight into Tuesday.

Rain continues tonight across the region and with a higher chance of 
heavy rain as well which some CAMs are indicating with their max 
reflectivity values. Slight chance of thunderstorms tonight as well.

Tuesday, expecting more shower like nature to the rainfall. For 
western areas, some increase in surface CAPE forecast so a chance of 
thunderstorms with otherwise slight chance of thunderstorms. Rain 
showers widespread during the day with decreasing coverage at night. 
Still minor flooding possible with a marginal risk for flash 
flooding.

Temperatures forecast a little warmer Tuesday using NBM and CONSraw 
blend, getting more into the mid 60s for western areas, lower 60s 
for eastern areas. Not much diurnal cooling of temperatures Tuesday 
night with lows just in the 50s.

&&

.LONG TERM /WEDNESDAY THROUGH SUNDAY/...
An upper low and its weak sfc reflection will pass across on Wed. 
Cold pool aloft plus daytime heating should generate enough 
instability for afternoon showers/tstms especially north/west of NYC 
(likely PoP there). Winds aloft will be weak due to the ULL passing 
across so severe potential looks nil attm. 

After this system passes through, a nrn stream trough digging S 
through the Great Lakes will close off over or near the OH Valley 
Thu night into Friday. This will send a sfc cold front toward the 
area on Thu, then as the low closes off sfc cyclogenesis should take 
place over the Mid Atlantic region, with the low passing slowly 
south and east Fri into Sat. Have only slight chance PoP for showers 
with the cold front, then higher chance PoP with the low development 
throughout Thu night-Fri, and for Long Island/S CT Fri night. As the 
low pulls away this weekend, have only slight chance PoP for Sat, 
and mainly dry for Sunday, though it is possible another cold front 
may approach from the NW as another northern stream upper trough 
moves across S Canada. 

Temps should be a little above normal through most of the period, 
except cooler on Fri due to clouds/higher PoP with the low passing 
to the south. 

&&

.AVIATION /08Z MONDAY THROUGH FRIDAY/...
Frontal boundary remains stalled within the region through the
TAF period.

Low clouds and occasional fog expected. Mainly IFR to LIFR
forecast. 

Some coastal terminals could get to upper end of IFR with
increasing winds and gusts this afternoon into early evening.
Visibilities could get to MVFR at times but otherwise mainly IFR
expected.

Winds are easterly near 10 kt much of the TAF period. Some sites
will increase to near 15 kt with gusts near 20 kt this afternoon
into this evening.

 ...NY Metro (KEWR/KLGA/KJFK/KTEB) TAF Uncertainty...

Categories could fluctuate between LIFR and IFR through the TAF
period. 

Wind gusts up to 20 kt possible this afternoon and evening.

.OUTLOOK FOR 09Z TUESDAY THROUGH FRIDAY...

Tuesday: Rain/showers and IFR. Possible thunderstorms, mainly 
afternoon/evening. SE gusts 15-20kt mainly during the day. 

Wednesday: Chance of MVFR or lower with showers likely and a chance
of thunderstorms.

Thursday: MVFR possible with a chance of showers, mainly at
night.

Friday: MVFR possible with a chance of showers. A slight chance
of thunderstorms.

Detailed information, including hourly TAF wind component 
forecasts, can be found at: https:/www.weather.gov/zny/n90

&&

.MARINE...
Conditions start out below SCA. Winds are expected to pick up this 
afternoon into tonight with southeasterly wind gusts near 20 kt. An 
occasional 25 kt gust will be possible. Non-ocean waters remain 
below SCA thresholds through Tuesday night. However, ocean seas are 
expected to build to 5 ft starting after 2PM this afternoon and 
continuing through the day Tuesday. Hoisted a SCA for the ocean 
zones to cover this, which will be mainly due to seas. Fire Island 
Inlet to Montauk start at 2PM this afternoon and west of Fire Island 
Inlet starts at 6PM this evening. Both SCA segments end at 6PM 
Tuesday. The higher ocean SCA seas could very well linger through 
Tuesday night.

Residual 5-ft seas should linger on the outer ocean waters E of Fire 
Island Inlet into Wed and E of Moriches Inlet Wed night. Otherwise 
sub advisory criteria expected longer term from Wed through Fri 
night, but with long period 4-ft swells persisting on the ocean and 
corresponding rougher conditions at the ocean inlets.

&&

.HYDROLOGY...
A little less than 48 hour storm total QPF going until 2AM Wednesday 
has mostly near 2 to 3.5 inches of rain across the region. 
Locally higher amounts will be possible.

Hourly rainfall rates at times could reach near 1 inch per hour. 
HREF indicates max 3 hr QPF that for small areas within the region 
reach near 2 inches. 

With overall rainfall amounts increased from prior forecast and a 
relatively shorter time window for this storm total, the probability 
for flooding has increased through early Tuesday morning. Still 
think this will be primarily minor flooding. Still think minor 
flooding would be most common type of flooding especially for
low lying, poor drainage and urban areas. However, there will 
be a slight chance of flash flooding, near 15 to 20 percent. In 
terms of areal coverage of flash flooding, this still equates to
isolated.

Marginal risk for flash flooding with otherwise minor flooding 
possible Tuesday latter half of morning through Tuesday evening.

No hydrological impacts expected mid to late week.

&&

.OKX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CT...None.
NY...None.
NJ...None.
MARINE...Small Craft Advisory from 2 PM this afternoon to 6 PM EDT 
     Tuesday for ANZ350-353.
     Small Craft Advisory from 6 PM this evening to 6 PM EDT 
     Tuesday for ANZ355.

&&

$$

SYNOPSIS...BG/JM
NEAR TERM...JM
SHORT TERM...JM
LONG TERM...BG
AVIATION...JM
MARINE...BG/JM
HYDROLOGY...BG/JM
