848 
FXUS61 KOKX 071139
AFDOKX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service New York NY
639 AM EST Fri Mar 7 2025

.SYNOPSIS...
Low pressure gradually departs to the northeast through tonight. A 
cold front moves through Saturday morning followed by high pressure 
building in through Sunday morning. A surface trough moves through 
Sunday night. High pressure will then remain in control Monday 
through Wednesday. Another frontal system approaches towards the end 
of the week.

&&

.NEAR TERM /THROUGH TONIGHT/...
Forecast on track this morning. Some flurries that are streaming
into the area from the northwest should be limited now to the
Lower Hudson Valley and interior CT.

Heights rise aloft today as the upper level trough axis is finally 
to our east. By late tonight heights lower a bit ahead of an 
approaching shortwave. At the surface, low pressure continues to 
gradually depart to the northeast and the pressure gradient over the 
area remains tight during the daytime hours. The gradient slackens a 
bit overnight as a weakening frontal system gets absorbed into the 
broader low to our northeast.

Strong winds continue today with the tight pressure gradient and 
deep mixing. The Wind Advisory remains in effect until 4 PM. 
Forecast wind gusts have not changed much from the previous 
forecasts. Model soundings show mixing up to around 850mb through 
the day across our whole area. Winds at that height are 40 to 50 kt 
through the morning hours and then drop a few kt for the afternoon. 
For hourly wind gust forecast went with a blend of NAM 900mb winds 
and the NBM90th percentile wind gusts. This gave several hours of 
widespread 45-50 mph gusts. Isolated gusts of 55 mph are likely, 
with the potential for a few 60 mph gusts, mainly through the 
morning hours. We decouple tonight and will get a lull in the gusty 
winds.

The aforementioned weakening frontal system approaches the area 
tonight along with another cold front. As a result, we may see some 
light rain/snow showers. Have slight chance to chance PoPs 
everywhere except southern CT. No snow accumulation is expected at 
this time.

&&

.SHORT TERM /SATURDAY THROUGH SUNDAY NIGHT/...
The aforementioned cold front moves through Saturday morning and we 
once again get deep mixing in CAA. Winds aloft are not as strong, so 
not expecting Wind Advisory levels, but still likely see gusts up to 
35 mph. Gusts were derived the same way as mentioned above.

High pressure noses in from the south through Sunday morning, but 
then another shortwave and surface trough move through Sunday night. 
This likely does not result in any showers and should just bring 
increased cloud cover. Gusty winds expected again Sunday during the 
day, but topping out at 30 mph.

Stuck close to NBM for temps during this period.

&&

.LONG TERM /MONDAY THROUGH THURSDAY/...
High pressure remains in control Monday through Wednesday. However, 
a weak low and trough pass to our north on Monday, along with a low 
pressure passing south of the region Monday night and Tuesday. Both 
are expected to remain far enough away to have no impacts here. A 
gradual warmup occurs during this period with highs Monday getting 
into the 50s, with 50s and 60s on Tuesday and Wednesday. There is 
some uncertainty with the timing of a cold front on Thursday into 
Thursday night. Will continue to carry just chance POPs for now. 
Temperatures will remain rather mild with temperatures reaching the 
50s and 60s once again on Thursday.

&&

.AVIATION /11Z FRIDAY THROUGH TUESDAY/...
High pressure slowly builds back into the area.

VFR. 

WNW gusts mainly between 35-40kt today. Winds start to 
diminish late afternoon and evening. There may be a period
tonight where the gusts end for a few hours, mainly after 06z,
however gusts develop once again Saturday morning with gusts in
the middle and upper 20kt range.

 ...NY Metro (KEWR/KLGA/KJFK/KTEB) TAF Uncertainty...

Gusts could prevail a few kt lower than forecast through this 
afternoon.

.OUTLOOK FOR 12Z SATURDAY THROUGH TUESDAY...

Saturday: VFR with W winds G15-20kt possible.

Sunday - Monday: VFR.

Tuesday: Mainly VFR, SW-S winds.

Detailed information, including hourly TAF wind component forecasts, 
can be found at: https:/www.weather.gov/zny/n90

&&

.MARINE...
Gale conditions continue through the day for all waters with 35 to 
40 kt W-NW gusts. There will be a lull in winds tonight, although a 
Small Craft Advisory will be needed on the ocean waters for the 
lingering 5 ft seas. By Saturday, gusts reach 30 kt, with potential 
for gales late in the day for the eastern LI Sound, Peconic and 
Gardiners Bays and the ocean zone south of Montauk. Confidence is 
still not high enough for a watch, but have mentioned in the HWO. 
There will then be another lull Saturday night before SCA gusts 
return again on Sunday, with 25 to 30 kt gusts.

Sub-SCA conditions are expected across all waters Monday into 
Tuesday morning. Seas may build back to SCA levels late Tuesday into 
Tuesday night as low pressure passes well south of the area. Seas 
fall back below 5ft on Wednesday. SCA conditions return towards the 
end of the week with the approach of a cold front.

&&

.FIRE WEATHER...
Although the area saw 1-2 inches of rain on Wednesday, windy and dry 
conditions today and Saturday will allow for an increased risk in 
fire spread. Both days will see min RH values around 30 percent. 
Gusts on Friday are expected to reach 45 to 50 mph, with gusts on 
Saturday around 30 to 35 mph. However, in coordination with fire 
partners, no products are expected at this time.

&&

.HYDROLOGY...
There are no hydrologic concerns through the middle of next
week.

&&

.OKX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CT...Wind Advisory until 4 PM EST this afternoon for CTZ005>012.
NY...Wind Advisory until 4 PM EST this afternoon for NYZ067>075-
     078>081-176>179.
NJ...Wind Advisory until 4 PM EST this afternoon for NJZ002-004-006-
     103>108.
MARINE...Gale Warning until 6 PM EST this evening for ANZ331-332-335-
     338-340-345-350-353-355.

&&

$$

SYNOPSIS...BC/JT
NEAR TERM...JT
SHORT TERM...JT
LONG TERM...BC
AVIATION...BC
MARINE...BC/JT
FIRE WEATHER...
HYDROLOGY...BC/JT
