914 
FXUS61 KOKX 100741
AFDOKX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service New York NY
341 AM EDT Mon Mar 10 2025

.SYNOPSIS...
High pressure remains in control through Wednesday. Weak low pressure 
approaches from the west Thursday into early Friday. The region
will then be in between high pressure in the Western Atlantic 
and approaching developing low pressure to the west heading into
next weekend.

&&

.NEAR TERM /THROUGH TONIGHT/...
Sunny for today with a nearly zonal flow aloft and weak surface 
ridging. Westerly flow should help produce a mild day with 
temperatures above normal. Anticipating afternoon sea breeze 
circulations to develop as the flow aloft weakens with mild surface 
temps, sea surface temps around 40, and large dewpoint depressions 
in place. Even south-facing shores should be able to reach well into 
the 50s before the sea breeze cools things off. Most of the forecast 
area should end up in the 60s given the westerly flow and 900mb 
temps ranging 4-6C.

Clear for tonight, and with light to calm winds, expecting good 
radiational cooling conditions in the usual spots away from the 
city. Lows in the mid 40s for the city, ranging to around 30 for 
some spots across the northernmost zones, and even down into the 
mid-upper 20s in the Pine Barrens Region. 

&&

.SHORT TERM /TUESDAY THROUGH WEDNESDAY NIGHT/...
Not much change in the pattern for Tuesday. Remaining sunny with 
above-normal temperatures. A weak onshore flow in the boundary layer 
will allow for an earlier sea-breeze this time around, so cooler 
high temps versus today for LI, a good portion of southern CT and 
parts of the city. Lower Hudson Valley and most of NE NJ reach or 
surpass today's highs by a few degrees. A cold front passes through 
during Tuesday night, but with only enough moisture for some clouds.

High pressure builds in from the north during Wednesday. Associated 
subsidence will limit the mixing depth, but temperatures are still 
expected to be a few degrees above normal in spite of this. Looks 
like sunshine filtered through cirrus much of the day with perhaps 
some low-mid clouds pushing in from the west by evening. These lower 
clouds are associated with an approaching shortwave. Still can't 
rule out a late night shower although models vary regarding how dry 
and deep the sub-cloud layer will be when the shortwave lift 
interacts with the moisture focused in the 850-700mb layer. Thermal 
profile is cold enough well inland for snow to mix in should 
anything reach the ground. 

&&

.LONG TERM /THURSDAY THROUGH SUNDAY/...
High pressure moves into the Canadian Maritimes Thursday while at 
the same time a weak low over the eastern Great Lakes region 
transitions into an inverted trough as it moves across the forecast 
area. Much of the area can expect a slight chance for showers as 
this feature weakens while it moves across the area and much of any 
dynamics remains mainly north of the area. Low end chance for 
eastern areas as this looks to interact with another trough 
offshore. 

With weak high pressure over the region Friday into the first half 
of the weekend, and weak ridging aloft, conditions are expected to 
be dry Friday and mainly dry for Saturday (some uncertainty with 
timing of the next system could bring in some showers for Saturday). 
However, better chances for late Saturday night into Sunday as a 
more amplified pattern develops. A stronger low approaches with a 
strengthening cold front bringing the potential for moderate to 
briefly heavy rain and gusty winds with strong meridional flow ahead 
of it. There are of course a fair amount of timing issues this far 
out, so confidence is rather low in any features that might 
contribute to heavy rain.

Temperatures are expected to be above average through the period. In 
fact, temperatures Saturday night into Sunday morning may not drop 
below the middle 50s for areas away from the coast, while highs on 
Sunday could reach the middle 60s across northeast NJ. For context 
on how warm lows will be Saturday night into Sunday, normal high 
temperatures this time of year are in the upper 40s to near 50.

&&

.AVIATION /07Z MONDAY THROUGH FRIDAY/...
Another weak surface trough passes through on Monday morning, 
followed by weak high pressure.

VFR. SW and weaken to 10 kt or less overnight. Winds then shift 
to the W/NW Monday morning behind a surface trough passage. 
Winds then become more SSW/S Monday afternoon behind an expected
seabreeze before becoming light and variable overnight.

 ...NY Metro (KEWR/KLGA/KJFK/KTEB) TAF Uncertainty...

Timing of wind shifts may vary by 1-2 hours.

.OUTLOOK FOR 06Z TUESDAY THROUGH THURSDAY...

Monday Night: VFR.

Tuesday-Wednesday: VFR.

Thursday: MVFR or lower possible with E flow. Slight chance of 
showers. 

Friday: VFR.

Detailed information, including hourly TAF wind component forecasts, 
can be found at: https:/www.weather.gov/zny/n90

&&

.MARINE...
Guidance still shows winds and waves picking up on the ocean this 
morning before subsiding this afternoon, but has trended lower in 
magnitude for both. Canceled the SCA on the ocean from Fire Island 
Inlet to Moriches Inlet, but not enough confidence to remove the 
advisory east of Moriches Inlet at this time. Have at least 
shortened the advisory to end at 18z. Sub-advisory conditions 
otherwise today through Wednesday evening.

Onshore flow Thursday will allow ocean waters to build to 5 ft 
(mainly the central and eastern zones). They fall below 5 ft late 
Thursday night and remain below SCA criteria through Friday night.

&&

.HYDROLOGY...
No hydrologic impacts are expected through the beginning of next
weekend.

&&

.OKX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CT...None.
NY...None.
NJ...None.
MARINE...Small Craft Advisory until 2 PM EDT this afternoon for ANZ350.

&&

$$

SYNOPSIS...JC/JP
NEAR TERM...JC
SHORT TERM...JC
LONG TERM...JP
AVIATION...JP
MARINE...JC/JP
HYDROLOGY...JC/JP
