173 
FXUS61 KOKX 081833
AFDOKX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service New York NY
233 PM EDT Thu May 8 2025

.SYNOPSIS...
A cold front will slowly sag across the area today, stalling near of 
just northwest of New York City by tonight. This will set the stage 
for a soaking rainfall late today into early Friday night. A few 
showers may linger into early Saturday. A weak cold front will 
cross the region Saturday night, with high pressure building in 
for early next week. Another low pressure system approaches for 
the middle of next week.

&&

.NEAR TERM /UNTIL 6 PM THIS EVENING/...
Updated the gridded fcst to increase pops this aftn across nwrn
areas. Continued the hwo mention of isold flash flooding for 
the nwrn third of the cwa for this aftn and eve due to the 
potential for slow moving shwrs and tstms. 

A weak cold front slows to our northwest on its approach, 
possibly stalling to the north of NYC today. This front has some
moisture to work with. We're expecting dry weather to persist 
through the first half of the day, though a few showers could 
arrive late this afternoon in NE NJ, lower Hudson Valley, and 
even NYC. This will be the beginning of a prolonged rain event, 
which is discussed more fully below in the Short Term. 

Pressure gradient remains weak today which will allow for coastal 
sea breezes this afternoon. Highs will be in the low to mid-70s.

&&

.SHORT TERM /6 PM THIS EVENING THROUGH SATURDAY/...
Key Messages:

 * A stalled front and low pressure to bring prolonged period of 
   rainfall Thursday afternoon into Friday night.

 * Periods of moderate to locally heavy rainfall possible.

 * 1-2" expected with locally higher totals possible.

 * Dry Saturday.

A cold front will slow on its approach today to our northwest. It 
will likely stall this evening into tonight, but model guidance 
still varies on the location of the front stalling. It will remain 
stalled over or nearby into Friday. At the same time, a Mid-Atlantic 
low will pass along the front during this time frame. An upper-level 
trough will also dig into northern New York Thursday, becoming 
closed and moving nearby Thursday night into Friday. The upper-low 
and surface low will then become stacked on Friday as it phases with 
a southern jet stream, then exit northeast late Friday night into 
early Saturday morning.

Low pressure along the stalled front will lead to periods of showers 
Thursday afternoon into Friday, with showers tapering west to east 
late Friday night into Saturday morning as the system exits. 
Thunderstorms will be possible late this afternoon and evening 
primarily north and west of NYC closer to the frontal boundary. 
Instability will be marginal today, but no thunderstorms expected 
into Friday. 

00Z guidance vary with QPF amounts due to disagreement among the 
models on where the stalled front will be located, and when. Periods 
of moderate to locally heavy rainfall are possible given lift from 
the stalled front, marginal instability, positive vorticity 
advection from the nearby closed upper-low, some orographic 
enhancement of precip with easterly flow Thursday night into early 
Friday, and warm air advection at 850mb Friday afternoon and 
evening. PWATs should peak around 1.10 to 1.50" which is right 
around or above the 90th percentile per SPC's Sounding Climatology 
Page. 

Current forecasted QPF is between 1-2" Thursday afternoon through 
Friday night. Its quite possible some areas could receive a few 
inches more than this, depending on where the heaviest 
showers/thunderstorms set up along the frontal boundary. Most of the 
00Z CAMs are hinting at some banded higher amounts late Thursday 
into Thursday night north and west of NYC. However, some of the 00Z 
CAMs (HRRR/MPAS) appear to bring this higher banded QPF into NE NJ, 
NYC and SW CT due to a more southerly placement of the stalled 
front. Following tonight, rainfall will be widespread into early 
Friday night before rainfall tapers with the exiting low into early 
Saturday. Given the uncertainty, WPC has maintained a Slight Risk 
for Excessive Rainfall for parts of Orange county and Passaic 
counties with and Marginal Risk for the remainder of the area on 
Thursday. Friday also carries a Marginal Risk for the entire area. 

Dry weather is expected by midday Saturday with the low exiting to 
the northeast and high pressure gradually beginning to take over.

&&

.LONG TERM /SATURDAY NIGHT THROUGH THURSDAY/...
Another shortwave and associated surface cold front moves across 
the area Saturday night into early Sunday morning with Canadian 
high pressure building into its wake and gradually rising heights. 

The high will keep conditions dry through Monday night. The next 
chance of precip comes on Tuesday or Wednesday with the 
approach of the next low pressure system.

Temperatures through the long term will remain at or slightly 
above normal with highs in the 70s.

&&

.AVIATION /19Z THURSDAY THROUGH TUESDAY/...
A cold front stalls nearby tonight with low pressure traveling along 
the front late tonight into Friday.

Mainly a VFR forecast through this evening. For this afternoon most 
of the shower activity will be confined to the northern and 
northwestern terminals (KSWF, and perhaps KHPN, KTEB, KEWR). Showers 
become more widespread to the NW as the afternoon progresses. Cannot 
rule out a thunderstorm for this afternoon and early this evening 
with confidence too low to include in TAFs, except for KSWF. Some 
showers may be moderate to locally heavy. Conditions for the city 
terminals fall to MVFR towards 04-06z. IFR conditions become more 
widespread late in the overnight towards 09-12z. IFR conditions 
prevail Friday morning with pockets of LIFR possible for KGON.

Winds will likely vary from N/NE to E under 10kt into this evening, 
and around or under 5 kt at most terminals late tonight as winds 
become more light and variable into Friday morning. E Winds increase 
to up to 10 kt late Friday morning.

 ...NY Metro (KEWR/KLGA/KJFK/KTEB) TAF Uncertainty...

Multiple wind shifts possible through early this evening with timing 
varying by 1-2 hours. Wind speeds generally less than 10 kt.

Low chance of thunderstorms this evening for KEWR and KTEB. 
Confidence remains too low to include in TAFs. Amendments possible 
through Friday with changing flight categories.

.OUTLOOK FOR 18Z FRIDAY THROUGH TUESDAY...

Friday afternoon: Mainly IFR and MVFR in moderate to heavy showers. 
Low chance of a thunderstorm. 

Saturday: Mainly VFR, except MVFR or lower possible isolated showers.

Sunday through Tuesday: VFR.

Detailed information, including hourly TAF wind component forecasts, 
can be found at: https:/www.weather.gov/zny/n90

&&

.MARINE...
Weak pressure gradient will maintain sub-SCA conditions through
early Fri. It's possible we see marginal SCA conditions on at 
least ocean waters as low pressure tracks through region late Fri
into Sat along with widespread rainfall.

Sub-SCA conditions are expected on the area waters Saturday night 
through the middle of next week with a weak pressure gradient over 
the area.

&&

.HYDROLOGY...
Widespread moderate to locally heavy rainfall is possible this 
afternoon through Friday night. Total average rainfall amounts 
will be 1-2", but could be locally higher for areas north and 
west of NYC. Flood impacts are expected to be minor for most, 
limited to only low- lying, poor drainage, nuisance issues. We 
could see isolated flash flood impacts late Thursday into 
Thursday night for parts of the far interior north and west of 
NYC where banded precipitation could set up given existing wet 
soils and higher stream levels from prior rainfall. Flood 
Watches may be needed for some of these areas, but given the 
disagreement on placement of highest QPF, confidence is too low 
for a Flood Watch, at this time.

&&

.OKX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CT...None.
NY...None.
NJ...None.
MARINE...None.

&&

$$

SYNOPSIS...BC/BR
NEAR TERM...JMC/BR
SHORT TERM...BR
LONG TERM...BC
AVIATION...JE
MARINE...BC/BR
HYDROLOGY...BC/BR
