470 
FXUS61 KOKX 301836
AFDOKX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service New York NY
236 PM EDT Fri May 30 2025

.SYNOPSIS...
An area of low pressure will pass well to the south early today
followed by a stronger approaching low late today. This low 
will pass late tonight then exit northeast into New England 
Saturday night. This sends a cold front through on Saturday into
Saturday night. High pressure will then gradually build in 
through the middle of next week.

&&

.NEAR TERM /THROUGH TONIGHT/...
Forecast generally on track with just some minor adjustments to
current observations. 

Otherwise, a weak wave of low pressure/surface trough feature 
passes well to the south over the Atlantic early today as a much
stronger low approaches us today. This well-developed low will 
pass near or just east of NYC late tonight into early tomorrow 
morning.

A few showers and thunderstorms are possible ahead of the 
approaching low this evening, with rainfall coverage increasing 
significantly with the arrival of the main shield of precip tonight. 
Given the location of the low near or slightly east of NYC late 
tonight (which 00Z CAMs seem to be in good agreement on), expecting 
the heaviest axis of QPF (with some moments of moderate to heavy 
rainfall) in the Lower Hudson Valley and western Passaic county. 
Minor nuisance flooding is possible, but much of the precip 
should occur over a long enough time frame to negate most 
concerns for flash flooding. However, an isolated occurrence of
this can still not be ruled out for this area of higher QPF. 
This would mainly occur from a 3 to 6 hour window Friday night 
when the heaviest rainfall is expected.

Given ample forcing and instability ahead of the low with PWATs 
around the 90th percentile to near max moving average, have included 
a chance for thunderstorms in the forecast. Other parameters do not 
seem to indicate a good chance for severe weather, so sticking with 
just general thunderstorms with this system.

&&

.SHORT TERM /SATURDAY THROUGH SUNDAY/...
A mid-level shortwave trough embedded in the longwave trough 
passes early Saturday which aids in surface low pressure exiting
the CWA and into New England. This is followed by a longwave 
trough further developing into the northeast late Saturday into 
Saturday night. 

As the surface low exiting, a cold front will get sent through late 
on Saturday. Prior to this, light showers may still be prevalent 
in the area. With and just prior to the frontal passage, enhance
lift may lead to marginal instability and a returning chance 
for thunderstorms. With the thunderstorm chances comes another 
brief round of possible downpours, the coverage of which will be
lower than on Friday night. 

Total rainfall from Friday night through Saturday is expected to be 
1.5-1.75" in the Lower Hudson, closer to 1" for NYC, dropping closer 
to 0.75" for eastern Long Island and SE CT. 

Following the front's exit, drier air gets filtered in, cutting off 
precip, under steady NW winds. The winds should become breezy, at 
times, under an increased pressure gradient from the low exiting 
northeast. 

Dry, cold air advection from the cold front will lead to lows Sat 
night back into the low-50s to mid-40s. Cooling will continue 
through Sunday as an upper-level trough remains over the region with 
highs on Saturday in the low-70s to upper-60s dropping to the 
mid/upper-60s on Sunday.

&&

.LONG TERM /SUNDAY NIGHT THROUGH FRIDAY/...
Upper trough axis and shortwave lift will maintain shower chances 
during Saturday night with a higher likelihood being east of the 
city and before midnight.

Upper troughing will remain over the Northeast into eastern Canada 
early next week. High pressure off to our west will be slow to build 
eastward with low pressure meandering over eastern Canada during 
this time period. The forecast remains dry Sunday night into Monday 
despite cyclonic flow aloft. However, multiple shortwaves spinning 
around the larger trough could introduce scattered to broken clouds 
at times, especially Monday afternoon. The axis of the trough should 
shift to our east Monday night into Tuesday allowing ridging to 
build towards the area into late Tuesday through Wednesday with the 
continuation of dry conditions. Models continue to differ regarding 
potential development of a cutoff h5 low over the western Atlantic, 
which if it forms would get trapped underneath upper ridging over 
the eastern seaboard. There is also potential for showers and 
thunderstorms from a potential cold front as the ridge weakens on 
Thursday. Capped PoPs at 30 percent given this is a week out.

Temperatures for Monday will trend closer to normal in the lower to 
middle 70s. A warming trend then continues through mid week with 
temperatures by Wednesday more summer-like. Highs based on the 
latest model consensus (NBM) will be in the 80s for much of the area 
except near the coast where sea breezes may hold temperatures in the 
upper 70s. Similar conditions are possible on Thursday.

&&

.AVIATION /19Z FRIDAY THROUGH WEDNESDAY/...
A weak low pressure trough remains nearby today, then a low
pressure center passes through early Saturday morning.

VFR at NYC and Lower Hudson Valley terminals through early this 
evening. Across Long Island and coastal Connecticut terminals, 
varying from IFR to VFR. An isolated shower possible through this 
afternoon.

Conditions will begin lowering early this evening across Long
Island and southeast CT terminals with LIFR-IFR becoming likely
towards 23-00z. Elsewhere, MVFR-IFR should develop as rain
begins to overspread the terminals from southwest to northeast.
IFR is likely overnight with moderate to heavy rain. There is also a 
chance for a few thunderstorms, so will continue with a PROB30 for 
this potential overnight. Conditions should start improving Saturday 
morning as low pressure begins lifting northeast of the terminals, 
with VFR returning mid to late morning. Additional showers bringing 
MVFR conditions for Saturday afternoon with another PROB30 for TSTMs.

S-SSE winds at generally 10 kt or less this afternoon. The flow 
weakens briefly tonight before strengthening as winds shift more SE-
E and then NW early Saturday morning, backing more NW-W for much of 
Saturday with gusts 20-25 kt.

 ...NY Metro (KEWR/KLGA/KJFK/KTEB) TAF Uncertainty... 

Isolated shower possible through this afternoon.

Amendments expected for timing of lowering conditions, rain, and
possible thunderstorms tonight into early Saturday morning. 

.OUTLOOK FOR 18Z SATURDAY THROUGH WEDNESDAY... 

Saturday PM: Showers with a chance of thunderstorms. W winds G20-
25kt possible.

Sunday through Wednesday...VFR.

&&

.MARINE...
A weak gradient will reside across the waters with sub-SCA 
conditions through Friday night. A building southerly swell is 
forecast to bring SCA conditions to ocean waters on Saturday 
afternoon lasting into Saturday night. There is still some 
question on if marginal SCA conditions will linger into early 
Sunday or subside. Late Sunday into Sunday night, sub-SCA 
conditions are expected.

A relatively weak pressure gradient should lead to conditions
below SCA levels Sunday night through Tuesday.

&&

.HYDROLOGY...
Total rainfall from Friday night through Saturday is expected to be 
1.5-1.75" in the Lower Hudson, closer to 1" for NYC, dropping closer 
to 0.75" for eastern Long Island and SE CT. 

Minor nuisance flooding is expected primarily in urban or poor 
drainage spots N & W of NYC. While there is not a significant 
concern for flash flooding, an isolated instance of flash 
flooding can not be ruled out for a 3 to 6 hour window, when 
rain rates are expected to be locally enhanced, late Friday 
night in western Passaic county and the Lower Hudson Valley. WPC
has also drawn a Slight Risk for Excessive Rainfall through 
much of Orange county and into western Passaic county, for this 
risk.

&&

.TIDES/COASTAL FLOODING...
Water levels may just barely touch minor flood benchmarks possible 
in the most vulnerable spots with the high tide cycles tonight due 
the passage of a deepening low pressure system. No statements have 
been issued. No additional coastal flooding is expected this weekend 
into early next week. 

There is a moderate risk for rip current development through
this evening with SE swells lowering to 4 to 5 ft. A moderate 
risk for rip current development continues on Saturday with the 
continuation of SW swells.

&&

.OKX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CT...None.
NY...Flood Watch from 8 PM EDT this evening through Saturday 
     morning for NYZ067>071.
NJ...Flood Watch from 8 PM EDT this evening through Saturday 
     morning for NJZ002-004-006-103>108.
MARINE...Small Craft Advisory from 6 AM Saturday to 6 AM EDT Sunday for 
     ANZ350-353-355.

&&

$$

SYNOPSIS...BR/DS
NEAR TERM...BC/BR
SHORT TERM...BR
LONG TERM...DS
AVIATION...JC
MARINE...BR/DS
HYDROLOGY...BR/DS
TIDES/COASTAL FLOODING...
