045 
FXUS61 KOKX 261126
AFDOKX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service New York NY
626 AM EST Sun Jan 26 2025

.SYNOPSIS...
A cold front moves through early today. High pressure briefly 
returns tonight, before low pressure approaches from the north. The 
low will pass well north of the area, but drag a cold front through 
on Tuesday. Tuesday is followed by a clipper on Wednesday. High
pressure then builds in through the rest of the week, with a 
frontal boundary remaining in the vicinity through the weekend 
as low pressure develops over the mid-West.

&&

.NEAR TERM /UNTIL 6 PM THIS EVENING/...
A weak cold front moves through early today. No precipitation is 
expected given weak lift and lack of moisture. However, with 
relatively deep mixing behind the front in a west flow, some 
gusty conditions are expected. 25 to 30 mph gusts are possible 
from late morning through the afternoon.

Stuck close to the NBM for highs today. Temperatures are expected to 
reach the low 40s (right around normal for late January), which
would be the warmest day in about a week.

&&

.SHORT TERM /6 PM THIS EVENING THROUGH TUESDAY/...
An upper level trough remains over the eastern CONUS through the 
short term period. A potent shortwave in the broader trough dives 
down from central Canada tonight. Associated surface low pressure 
rapidly deepens and will pass well to our north. As it moves east it 
will drag a cold front through the area on Tuesday.

As the low deepens to the north, the pressure gradient over the area 
tightens and winds start to increase again on Monday. By Monday 
night, a strong low level jet forms over eastern portions of our 
area with about 40 kt at 950mb. The NAM is the strongest, showing 45 
to 50 kt at 950mb. Confidence is high over the warmer ocean waters 
that these stronger winds will mix down, but there is  with 
just how much can mix down over land given the expected 
inversion. This will have to be monitored as advisory level 
gusts can not be completely ruled out, mainly for the Twin Forks
of Long Island and the southeast CT coast. While the strongest 
winds aloft will be mainly east of the area by Tuesday morning, 
with deep mixing behind the cold front 30 to 35 mph gusts are 
possible through Tuesday afternoon. This cold front has a little
bit of a better chance to bring precip to the area. Kept 
general idea from previous forecast but fine tuned timing. PoPs 
remain capped at 30 percent. Confidence not high enough to 
include any QPF or snow amount as anything that falls will 
likely be very light.

&&

.LONG TERM /TUESDAY NIGHT THROUGH SATURDAY/...
A clipper system approaches Tuesday night and tracks over 
southern/central New England Wednesday. Best pcpn chances along and 
N of the sfc low track. Although the timing seems to be in pretty 
good agreement amongst the models, the exact position of the low is 
still uncertain, with the 00Z ECMWF further N than the GFS. Both 
models however bring the CWA into the warm sector attm. Cannot rule 
out a track ending up further S, but for now will continue to follow 
the consensus modeling and keep the low N of the area, resulting in 
milder temps and lower pcpn chances and amounts. 

Thereafter, high pressure builds in through the end of the week. 
However, a frontal boundary remains draped over the area, and could 
potentially remain in the vicinity through the weekend. Another weak 
clipper system may pass over northern New England Thursday night, but 
looks to be too far north to bring any precipitation the the area. 
However, this far out, there is a great deal of uncertainty with the 
low and where the front will be, so stuck close to the NBM. 

With the area in the warm sector of the clipper system on Wednesday, 
temperatures are expected to be above normal, ranging from the lower 
to middle 40s. The front dips south of the area on Thursday, and 
below normal temperatures are once again expected, with near normal 
temperatures for Friday, and slightly warmer temperatures for 
Saturday.

&&

.AVIATION /12Z SUNDAY THROUGH THURSDAY/...
A weak cold front approaches and passes through this afternoon.

VFR. WSW winds mostly 5-10kt through early this morning, 
strongest at the coastal terminals. W winds increase to around 
15 kt with gusts around 25 kt late this morning through this 
afternoon. Winds then diminish this evening.

     NY Metro (KEWR/KLGA/KJFK/KTEB) TAF Uncertainty...

No unscheduled amendments expected.

.OUTLOOK FOR 12Z MONDAY THROUGH THURSDAY...

Monday: VFR. WSW gusts 20-25kt.

Tuesday: Mainly VFR. CHC brief MVFR in rain/snow shower. WNW gusts 
25-30kt with chc 35kt.

Wednesday: Chance of MVFR or lower in snow showers. W gusts around 
25kt

Thursday: VFR. NW gusts 25-30 kt.

Detailed information, including hourly TAF wind component forecasts, 
can be found at: https:/www.weather.gov/zny/n90

&&

.MARINE...
A Small Craft Advisory is in effect for all waters today and 
continues on the ocean waters tonight. 25 knot gusts are expected on 
all non ocean waters, while 25 to 30 knot gusts are expected on the 
ocean waters, with seas rising to 5-6 feet.

There will be a brief lull in activity tonight where winds and seas 
fall below SCA criteria. However, as low pressure approaches from 
the north the pressure gradient increases and SCA conditions return 
by Monday morning. By Monday night, Gale conditions are possible for 
the ocean waters, eastern LI Sound and Peconic and Gardiners Bays 
and a Gale Watch has been issued. Gales can not be ruled out on the 
other waters, but confidence is not high enough to issue a watch at 
this time. Will continue a mention in the HWO. In the Gale Watch 
areas, gusts of 35 to 40 kt are possible. Guidance continues to show 
at least 40 kt at 950mb, with mixing over the waters up to 925mb. 
There is potential for some isolated gusts over 40 kt. Given the 
strong winds, seas on the ocean waters likely rise to 8 to 12 feet 
and waves on the LI Sound likely rise to 3 to 5 feet. Winds and 
waves lower to SCA conditions by Tuesday afternoon.

A SCA may be needed through Wed as winds gust to near 25 kt. 
Best chances for SCA would be the ocean, but there is the 
potential that it would be needed for all waters. SCA conditions
continue on Thursday.

&&

.HYDROLOGY...
No hydrologic impacts expected into the beginning of next
weekend.

&&

.OKX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CT...None.
NY...None.
NJ...None.
MARINE...Small Craft Advisory until 6 PM EST this evening for ANZ331-
     332-335-340-345.
     Gale Watch from Monday evening through Tuesday afternoon for 
     ANZ332-340-350-353-355.
     Small Craft Advisory until 6 PM EST this evening for ANZ338.
     Small Craft Advisory until 1 AM EST Monday for ANZ350-353-355.

&&

$$

SYNOPSIS...JP/JT
NEAR TERM...JT
SHORT TERM...JT
LONG TERM...JP
AVIATION...JP
MARINE...JP/JT
HYDROLOGY...JP/JT
