529 
FXUS61 KOKX 050547
AFDOKX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service New York NY
147 AM EDT Sat Apr 5 2025

.SYNOPSIS...
High pressure passes overhead tonight. A warm front approaches the 
area on Saturday and may lift to the north Saturday night. A cold
front pushes through Sunday, followed by weak low pressure 
tracking offshore on Monday into Monday night. A secondary cold 
front pivots through late Monday night into early Tuesday. High 
pressure builds for mid week before pushing offshore Thursday. A
frontal system may approach late on Friday.

&&

.NEAR TERM /UNTIL 6 AM THIS MORNING/...
Very light rain is being observed west of NYC, so the precip may
be just enough to reach the ground, despite dry air.
Temperatures have also run warmer than forecast and have been 
adjusted according to observation trends. Same for dewpoints. 

Heights rise aloft slightly tonight as ridging builds into the area. 
A very strong ~190kt anticyclonically curved upper level jet streak 
will build well north of the area in southeastern Canada. At the 
surface, the cold front that passed through this morning will stall 
offshore. High pressure centered to our north will move through
and offshore tonight.

With a northwesterly flow, some drier air is filtering into the 
area. Clouds continue to gradually thin and clear from north to 
south. The clearing will not last too long as mid and upper level 
clouds increase around midnight with a wave of low pressure 
approaching from the south west. So even though winds will be light 
tonight, the cloud cover will not allow for efficient radiational 
cooling. The winds also turn easterly as the high shifts offshore, 
which will start to bring in an increase in low level moisture. 
Stuck with NBM for low temperatures which gave 40s everywhere.

With some lift ahead of the approaching wave and associated warm 
front, some light rain will be possible, mainly for NYC north 
and west after midnight.

&&

.SHORT TERM /6 AM THIS MORNING THROUGH 6 PM SUNDAY/...
The warm front continues its approach on Saturday and may lift 
north of the area Saturday night. There is some uncertainty 
across the latest guidance on whether it will lift completely 
through or stall somewhere over the area. Regardless, with the 
front at least nearby, wet conditions are expected. There is 
also some disagreement across the CAMs on exact timing of rain. 
The HRRR is the fastest, bringing widespread rain in after 8AM. 
If this verifies, the current forecast may be a few hours too 
slow. Much of the rain will be light to locally moderate. 
However, Saturday night elevated instability increases and may 
allow for some heavier showers and thunder. No severe weather is
expected. Have added in patchy fog Saturday night into early
Sunday morning with combination of light winds, moisture laden
boundary layer and some increase in dewpoints.

Highs will be cooler than the normals for early April on
Saturday. Highs may just break 50 across LI, NYC and northeast 
NJ, but likely stay in the 40s up in the Lower Hudson Valley and
southern CT. Lows Saturday night will actually run a bit warmer
than normal, in the 40s.

&&

.LONG TERM /SUNDAY NIGHT THROUGH FRIDAY/...
The period begins with an amplified ridge in the west and a 
developing eastern CONUS trough as the ridge in SW Atlantic migrates 
east. A cold front slowly pushes in from the west and moves across 
on Sunday. This will yield high end chance and lower end likely PoPs 
for much of the CWA during the day Sunday. PoPs then increase 
further Sunday night as some strung out PVA is progged just 
downstream by NWP on a SW flow aloft. This should develop a wave or 
waves of low pressure along the boundary late Sunday into Sunday 
night / early Monday. Uncertainty remains slightly above average 
with respect to how far to the south and east the cold front slows 
down and possibly stalls late Sunday into early Monday. For now have 
taken a middle of the road approach and followed consensus PoPs, 
thus stuck very close to the NBM in this regard. Any low pressure 
that develops gets east of the area later Monday into Monday night. 
Thus, any likely PoPs move offshore Monday afternoon into Monday 
evening. A secondary boundary, a cold / occluded type boundary 
approaches into Tuesday morning. It won't be until we get behind 
this boundary that a large portion of the column dries out. Look for 
strong cold air advection to follow with a W to NW flow as a cP air 
mass out of Southern Canada builds. This will result in
temperatures not getting out of the 40s during the day Tuesday 
with variable cloudiness with a cold pool aloft and likely 
strat-cu cloud deck at times. 850 mb temps are progged to get 
down to -10 to -12C with 1000- 500mb thickness in the lower 520s
by Wed AM. Wed AM wind chills are likely to get down into the 
upper teens to lower 20s across a good portion of the area, with
actual air temperatures mainly around or below freezing. With 
high pressure in control look for dry conditions for the mid 
week. The high will begin to push offshore sometime on Thursday 
with a return flow out of the south developing. Temperatures 
begin to moderate on Thursday, with coastal areas remaining 
rather chilly with a wind off the ocean during the afternoon 
hours which will likely drop temperatures back into the 40s. 
Towards Friday low pressure out of the Ohio Valley and its 
attendant frontal system will start to draw closer. Any 
precipitation though will likely hold off until either late in 
the day or at night based on the latest NWP consensus.

&&

.AVIATION /06Z SATURDAY THROUGH WEDNESDAY/...
High pressure moves offshore overnight. A warm front approaches
from the south late tonight through Saturday, and slows its
northward progress Saturday night.

VFR overnight with light rain at times. Conditions lower after
daybreak Saturday, lowering initially to MVFR with light rain, 
and then by early afternoon to IFR, and toward late afternoon 
into the evening LIFR, with rain continuing.

Winds will be light NE becoming E overnight, and then SE and
increasing to around 15 kt toward daybreak. Gusts 20-25 kt are 
possible inland but will be more occasional and did not include
in the forecast, except at KISP with higher confidence there.
SE/E winds diminish late Saturday afternoon, and likely become
light and variable at all the terminals Saturday evening. Low
confidence in the wind direction and speeds late afternoon into
Saturday night and will be affected by the timing and location
of the warm front.


 ...NY Metro (KEWR/KLGA/KJFK/KTEB) TAF Uncertainty...

Low confidence on the timing of lowering conditions Saturday
morning into the evening, and could be several hours off from 
TAF as conditions and timing will be dependent on the warm
front.

Saturday evening, with stratus and fog, LIFR is likely.


.OUTLOOK FOR 06Z SUNDAY THROUGH WEDNESDAY...

Late Saturday night: IFR to LIFR in rain and fog. There is a
slight chance of thunderstorms.

Sunday: Potential early fog across Long Island and Southeast CT. 
Rain showers likely with MVFR to IFR possible.

Monday: Rain showers mainly early with MVFR possible. Otherwise 
mainly VFR.

Tuesday: Possible early rain showers for most terminals, possible 
early rain/snow showers for KSWF. MVFR to IFR possible early, 
otherwise VFR. W-NW wind gusts near 20-25 kt.

Wednesday: VFR. NW wind gusts 15-20 kt during the day.

Detailed information, including hourly TAF wind component forecasts, 
can be found at: https:/www.weather.gov/zny/n90

&&

.MARINE...
Sub SCA conditions expected tonight with high pressure passing
overhead. An easterly flow picks up on Saturday and conditions
may reach marginal SCA criteria on the ocean waters and portions
of some of the non-ocean marine zones. For now, no headline is 
in effect. Winds lower again on Saturday night.

Mainly sub advisory conditions prevail on the coastal waters, with 
perhaps the eastern ocean waters being an exception with seas around 
5 ft at times Sunday through Monday night.

Behind a secondary cold front Tuesday look for small craft 
conditions to develop on all the waters with a W to NW wind 
increasing. A brief period of marginal gales is possible late in the 
day Tuesday into the first half of Tuesday night. Sub advisory 
conditions return by Wednesday.

&&

.HYDROLOGY...
There are no hydrologic concerns through next week.

&&

.OKX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CT...None.
NY...None.
NJ...None.
MARINE...None.

&&

$$

SYNOPSIS...JE/JT
NEAR TERM...JE/JM/BR/JT
SHORT TERM...JT
LONG TERM...JE
AVIATION...MET
MARINE...JE/JT
HYDROLOGY...JE/JT
