094 
FXUS61 KOKX 080815
AFDOKX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service New York NY
415 AM EDT Tue Apr 8 2025

.SYNOPSIS...
A strong cold front moves through the region early this 
morning,, and will be followed by high pressure building in 
slowly to the south through Wednesday. The high moves offshore 
of the mid Atlantic coast Wednesday night. Several waves of low 
pressure impact us Thursday through Sunday. High pressure 
briefly settles in Sunday night into Monday before another 
possible frontal system impacts the area Monday night through 
Tuesday night.

&&

.NEAR TERM /UNTIL 6 PM THIS EVENING/...
A deep upper trough with strong shortwave energy passes to the
north today, accompanied by a deepening low that tracks through
update New York and across northern New England, and into the 
Canadian Maritimes. This low will bring a strong cold front 
across the region early this morning. Behind the front a strong 
and gusty west to northwest wind and strong cold advection will 
keep high temperatures in the 40s, about 10 degrees below 
normal. For the winds and gusts used a blend of the previous 
forecast and the NBM 90th percentile. Winds and gusts remain 
below wind advisory criteria. However, during the mid to late 
afternoon, with the deepest mixing, the strongest winds and 
gusts are likely, and a few sustained winds and gusts may 
briefly reach advisory levels. With weakening cold advection, a 
weakening pressure gradient, and loss of heating will allow for 
winds and gusts to rather quickly diminish this evening.

&&

.SHORT TERM /6 PM THIS EVENING THROUGH WEDNESDAY NIGHT/...
A cold airmass will be over the region tonight with sub-
freezing temperatures throughout the area, with temperatures
ranging in the 20s, 10 to 15 degrees below normal. Wind chill
values will range from around 10 inland to 15 along the coast,
and around 20 in New York City. With the cold airmass and the
growing season having started April 1 for the NY/NJ metro area 
a freezing warning has been issued for late tonight into early
Wednesday morning. Did not mention any frost as winds do stay up
and dew point depressions will be around 20 degrees.

Below normal temperatures continue Wednesday and Wednesday 
night as high pressure builds to the south, and then moves off 
the Mid Atlantic coast.

&&

.LONG TERM /THURSDAY THROUGH MONDAY/...
On Thursday, a longwave upper-level trough begins to build over
the Great Lakes. This sends a weak surface low and associated 
mid-level shortwave into the northeast which provides us with 
scattered showers late Thursday afternoon into Thursday night. 

Thursday night into the week the longwave trough over the Great
Lakes amplifies very sharply over the eastern US into the 
southern Gulf states. Within this longwave trough, several 
shortwaves will spin through that may kick off several areas of 
low pressure at the surface and impact us into the weekend. 
Right now, 00Z guidance mainly has 2 low pressure systems 
developing from this that could impact us. 

On Thursday night, a surface low will move over the Mid- 
Atlantic states. There, it will be guided north up the Atlantic 
coast by the highly amplified upper-level trough and into our 
area Friday into Saturday. This will lead to a period of wet and
active weather Friday into Saturday. While timing discrepancies
still exist, the latest guidance has really honed into a period
of when most of the rain will fall. This rainfall will be 
enhanced by a surge of moisture from the tropics that has been 
picked up by the highly amplified trough and sent our way up the
Atlantic coast. The 00Z LREF-TLE (a model blend of 00Z GEFS, 
00Z GEPS, and time-lagged 12Z ENS) has really honed in on a 
period of most of the rain occurring Friday evening into Friday 
night. This is the period most of the ensembles agree on. 
Because of this, have gone with 70-85% POPs for Friday Night. 
The LREF shows a 45-60% of 1" of rainfall in 24 hours and a 
5-10% of 2" in 24 hours. Friday has also been highlighted by WPC
for a Marginal Risk of Excessive Rainfall. 

As this low exits on Friday, another low will develop and move 
up the Atlantic coast, towards our area Saturday night into 
Sunday. Here, the latest guidance varies more in track. While 
all guidance agrees a second low will arrive, many of the 00Z 
guidance shows the low too far offshore to bring another likely 
chance of rainfall. Have gone with chance to slight chance for 
POPs in this timeframe. 

The trough exits east on Sunday night as a ridge moves in 
Sunday night into Monday, bringing high pressure back to the 
area at the surface. This period will likely remain mostly dry. 

Some 00Z guidance indicate another surface low and associated 
upper level trough in Canada could bring a cold front with 
another chance for possible precipitation on Monday night into 
Tuesday night, but there is too much uncertainty this far out to
be sure. 

Temperatures will remain around seasonal Thursday through the 
weekend, gradually warming a degree or two each day. Went with 
the NBM for temperatures on Monday given uncertainty in the 
outcome which shows highs may surge into the mid/upper-60s. This
is still very subject to change, however.

&&

.AVIATION /08Z TUESDAY THROUGH SATURDAY/...
Low pressure passing along a stalled frontal boundary to our 
south is exiting east this morning, aided by a strong cold front
expected to pass in the next few hours. Following the cold 
front this morning, high pressure settles in through Wednesday.

TAF sites will continue to flirt with IFR/MVFR ceilings and
mist through 9Z-12Z. Then most sites will improve between MVFR 
and VFR. All sites should be VFR by 11-13Z, with KGON not VFR 
until 13-15Z. We will then remain VFR for the remainder of the 
day and into Wednesday. 

Winds will remain mostly light and variable through 9-12Z until
the cold front brings winds up in a steady direction. Winds 
later this morning will be WNW 10-15 with gusts of 20-25 kt,
increasing in speed quickly. Winds will prevail this afternoon
and early evening WNW 22-28 kt with gusts 32-37 kt. Peak gusts
could be upwards of 40 kt. Winds diminish into the late evening
and tonight, maintaining a WNW direction, perhaps closer to NW
tonight. We lose the gusts somewhere around 9-12Z tomorrow with
sustained winds around 10 kt at this time, give or take a few
kts. 

 ...NY Metro (KEWR/KLGA/KJFK/KTEB) TAF Uncertainty... 

Timing of improvement to VFR early this morning may be off by 1
to 3 hours.

Timing of wind shift behind the cold front tonight may be off by 1-3 
hours.

Peak gusts on Tuesday around 40 kt. 

.OUTLOOK FOR 06Z WEDNESDAY THROUGH SATURDAY...

Wednesday: VFR.

Thursday: MVFR possible late with a chance of showers.

Friday: IFR possible with showers likely. E-SE wind gusts 15-20 kt 
possible.

Saturday: MVFR or lower possible. Chance of showers. E-SE wind gusts 
15-20 kt possible.

Detailed information, including hourly TAF wind component forecasts, 
can be found at: https:/www.weather.gov/zny/n90

&&

.MARINE...
The gale warning remains in effect for all the waters today into 
early this evening, continuing on the ocean waters until late 
evening. Before then, through 600 AM this morning, a Small Craft
Advisory is now in effect for the ocean waters east of Fire 
Island Inlet with lingering 5 ft seas. Low pressure passes well 
to the north today, and sends a strong cold front across the 
waters this morning and will be followed by strong and gusty 
northwest winds. Once gales end a SCA will likely be needed on 
the non ocean waters into late tonight, and on the ocean waters 
into Wednesday morning. Once SCA conditions end winds and seas 
will remain below advisory levels through Wednesday night as 
high pressure over the waters moves offshore. SCA conditions are
possible, mainly on the ocean, Thu night through Sat with a 
slow moving low pressure system.

&&

.HYDROLOGY...
There are no hydrologic concerns through Thursday. 

The LREF shows a 45-60% of 1" of rainfall in 24 hours and a 
5-10% of 2" in 24 hours Friday night. Friday has also been 
highlighted by WPC for a Marginal Risk of Excessive Rainfall. 
Timing discrepancies still exist, but some periods of moderate 
to heavy rainfall are possible Friday evening into Friday night.
With several rounds of rain expected, its possible we could see
minor impacts, but major impacts are not expected at this time 
given much of the rainfall will be spaced out over several days.

&&

.OKX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CT...None.
NY...Freeze Warning from midnight tonight to 9 AM EDT Wednesday for 
     NYZ072>075-176>179.
NJ...Freeze Warning from midnight tonight to 9 AM EDT Wednesday for 
     NJZ006-106-108.
MARINE...Gale Warning until 8 PM EDT this evening for ANZ331-332-335-
     338-340-345.
     Small Craft Advisory until 6 AM EDT early this morning for 
     ANZ350-353.
     Gale Warning until 11 PM EDT this evening for ANZ350-353-355.

&&

$$

SYNOPSIS...BR/MET
NEAR TERM...MET
SHORT TERM...MET
LONG TERM...BR
AVIATION...BR
MARINE...BR/MET
HYDROLOGY...BR/MET
