686 
FXUS61 KOKX 240825
AFDOKX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service New York NY
425 AM EDT Mon Mar 24 2025

.SYNOPSIS...
A developing low tracks across the area today. Another low will 
track south of the area late Tuesday night into Wednesday. High
pressure then builds in from the southwest on Thursday, passing
to the south on Friday as a weak disturbance passes to the 
north. A frontal system is forecast to impact the area over the 
weekend.

&&

.NEAR TERM /THROUGH TONIGHT/...
Biggest change with the mrng fcst is to reduce wintry pcpn across 
the interior. Temps have been rising with the thickening of clouds 
and waa. Dewpoints are still in the 20s across the interior, so 
there is some room for temps to drop a few degrees with the pcpn 
this mrng. However, radar indicates the bulk of the pcpn on a 
trajectory to impact srn portions of the cwa early this mrng. By the 
time the steadier pcpn gets here aft around 12Z, it should be warm 
enough for all rain just about everywhere.

Jet streak comes thru today and enhances lift. Timeheights show
deep lift to around h25. There is also a little elevated 
mucape, albeit blw 100 J/kg per the NAM. Could get an isold tstm
with this setup. With coverage expected to be 10 percent or 
less, and confidence low, have kept tstms out of the fcst attm. 
Would prefer to see mucape aoa 100 to include.

Strongest winds today at the S coast with the frontal boundary and 
developing sfc low modeled to be over the Sound or srn CT. Despite 
the inversion, if there is any embedded convection, could see some 
higher gusts around 40kt on the waters or on LI. There is 50kt at 
around 1500ft to work with per the NAM.

The pcpn tapers off quickly this eve with the HREF pops used. The 
rain should end most areas before sunset, then partly cloudy 
overnight with some mid and high clouds lingering. 

Max/min temps today and tngt the NBM.

&&

.SHORT TERM /TUESDAY THROUGH WEDNESDAY/...
Deep mixing on wly flow will warm temps into the 50s for the entire 
area Tue. This is despite h85 at around -2C. Increasing high clouds 
ahead of the next sys for Tue ngt and Wed.

As an h5 trof digs into the Northeast, low pres develops somewhere 
near the delmarva and tracks newd over the ocean. There is a 
clustering of the NAM, GFS, and ECMWF near or SE of the benchmark. 
This could allow for some pcpn to develop Tue ngt into Wed, with the 
potential for some snow with decreasing thicknesses. The progressive 
nature of the sys will be a limiting factor with the sys. Right now 
pops are in the chc category. Did go with rain or snow wording 
despite lows in the upr 30s at the coasts. The models may be a bit 
too warm this far out based on the 00Z consensus track. The NBM is 
curious placing the highest snow amounts in the nwrn zones, while at 
the same time having nearly zero, and in some cases zero, qpf. This 
is a signal that there is a good deal of uncertainty within the 
ensemble still. 

Any pcpn with the ocean low exits Wed aftn per the current consensus 
timing. This is still several periods out so this could change. Went 
with the NBM for high temps Wed, although if the GFS verifies, temps 
aloft area a bit too cold to produce the NBM numbers, with highs in 
the 40s more realistic.

&&

.LONG TERM /WEDNESDAY NIGHT THROUGH SUNDAY/...
Global models remain in good agreement for the first half of this 
period as a longwave trough extending south from eastern Canada into 
the Mid Atlantic states on Wednesday lifts out to the north and east 
through Friday. This will result in a dry period Wednesday night 
through Friday, minus a sprinkle late Thursday into Thursday night 
with a weak upper level disturbance. Highs will start off close to 
normal on Thursday and then are forecast to get well into the 50s in 
a mild SW flow. However, like 24h ago, differences remain with a 
frontal boundary that is expected to be in close proximity to the 
area over the weekend and with the potential for some light 
overrunning precipitation. The latter of which looks to be mostly 
rain, but this will depend on the southern extent of polar high 
pressure that briefly builds to the north Friday night, sending a 
backdoor cold front across the area. 

NBM box and whisker plots for Saturday and Sunday show 10 to 20 
degree spreads between the 25th and 75th percentiles, most notable 
for the high temperatures. This shows the potential for highs across 
the area anywhere from the 40s to lower 70s during this time. There 
is also quite a variance between the NBM deterministic (cooler) and 
its median during this time. The operational global 2m temps are 
generally colder during this time. Bottom line, there is a 
significant amount of uncertainty with the placement of the polar 
front this weekend and the temperature forecast. The 00Z globals did 
show better agreement in the positioning. We will see how this 
carries over the next several cycles. For the moment, temperatures 
during this time reflect the NBM deterministic forecast.

&&

.AVIATION /08Z MONDAY THROUGH FRIDAY/...
A frontal system will impact the terminals through this afternoon.

Ceilings will gradually lower into the morning as rain develops 
first with MVFR ceilings, then lowering to IFR. It may take several 
hours longer for the eastern terminals, especially at KGON which may 
not go sub-VFR until the 13Z-14Z timeframe. There is plenty of low-
level dry in place initially so amendments for timing are expected. 

For KSWF, a wintry mix at the onset should go over to all rain in 
the 10Z-12Z timeframe. Surface temperatures are above freezing and 
precipitation will initially be light. Little or no accumulation 
expected. 

S/SE wind speeds initially near 5-10 kt, increasing to 10-15 kt 
along coast, without much change farther inland. Gusts near coast 
near 20 kt, with a brief window were gusts can reach up to 30 kt 
after 12Z. Gusts will likely lower late morning into the afternoon 
as a low-inversion strengthens as warmer air moves in aloft. 

Southerly low level wind shear expected for from 12-20Z, with 40-50 
kt SW winds at 2kft just for some coastal terminals, KJFK, KLGA, 
KISP and KGON.

 ...NY Metro (KEWR/KLGA/KJFK/KTEB) TAF Uncertainty... 

Timing of categorical changes could vary by 1-2 hours. Chance of 
LIFR cigs late morning into the afternoon.

Brief window where gusts could reach 30 kt in the morning(11Z-14Z).

.OUTLOOK FOR 09Z TUESDAY THROUGH FRIDAY...

Late Monday night: VFR.

Tuesday: Mainly VFR. Chance of MVFR to IFR with a wintry mix late 
Tuesday night. W wind gusts near 20 kt during the day.

Wednesday: Possible wintry mix early with MVFR to IFR. Precipitation 
transitions to mainly rain with MVFR to IFR possible before tapering 
off in afternoon. VFR returns at night. Afternoon NW wind gusts 15-
20 kt.

Thursday: VFR.

Friday: VFR. W wind gusts 15-20 kt.

Detailed information, including hourly TAF wind component forecasts, 
can be found at: https:/www.weather.gov/zny/n90

&&

.MARINE...
A SCA for all areas today, ending from W to E as low pres tracks 
near the Sound. Ocnl gale gusts possible on the ocean and LI 
bays. Winds decrease blw 25kt all waters tngt, but seas on the 
ocean stay aoa 5 ft. Winds mrgnl on Tue, but seas will likely 
stay at SCA lvls for most of the ocean thru the day. Winds 
likely blw SCA lvls thru Wed, but seas will be close to 
thresholds on the ocean.

Sub advisory conditions remain on the forecast waters Wednesday 
night into Thursday, then an increasing W/SW flow could bring seas 
on the ocean close to 5 ft, especially east of Fire Island Inlet. 
The flow weakens Friday evening.

&&

.HYDROLOGY...
No hydrologic impacts expected through the end of the week.

&&

.OKX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CT...None.
NY...None.
NJ...None.
MARINE...Small Craft Advisory until 6 PM EDT this evening for ANZ331-
     332-340-345.
     Small Craft Advisory until noon EDT today for ANZ335-338.
     Small Craft Advisory until 6 AM EDT Tuesday for ANZ350.
     Small Craft Advisory until 6 AM EDT Tuesday for ANZ353-355.

&&

$$

SYNOPSIS...JMC/DW
NEAR TERM...JMC
SHORT TERM...JMC
LONG TERM...DW
AVIATION...DW
MARINE...JMC/DW
HYDROLOGY...JMC/DW
