216 
FXUS61 KOKX 300612
AFDOKX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service New York NY
212 AM EDT Wed Apr 30 2025

.SYNOPSIS...
A cold front moves through late tonight into early Wednesday 
morning. High pressure builds Wednesday and settles over the area 
Wednesday night into Thursday. A warm front approaches Thursday 
night and lifts through the region on Friday, with an attendant
cold front following during Saturday. Thereafter, high pressure
attempts to build in from the west into early next week.

&&

.NEAR TERM /THROUGH TODAY/...
Dry weather anticipated through the pre-dawn hours, however 
a shortwave that's helping to produce some showers will be 
passing to our south from daybreak through mid-morning with a 
slight chance that the northern extent of these showers brush 
the southernmost zones. This shouldn't be an issue by the end of
this morning.

Noticeably drier air rushes in immediately behind a cold front 
early this morning on a NW wind. Expect plenty of sunshine and 
NW winds in the 10 to 15, 10 to 20 mph range throughout the 
morning with gusts around 25 mph, perhaps briefly to 30 mph 
until mid day or shortly thereafter. For more on the dry 
conditions see the Fire Wx. section. Then later in the afternoon
the winds diminish as high pressure continues to draw closer 
and the pressure gradient begins to weaken. On a NW wind this 
time of year it usually means above normal temperatures as the 
winds will downslope across the interior. Most spots should get 
to around 70, with some middle 70s across the more metropolitan 
areas by the afternoon. Thus, temperatures should get a good 5 
to 8 degrees above normal in most places.

&&

.SHORT TERM /TONIGHT THROUGH 6 PM THURSDAY/...
With a dry cP air mass settling directly over the area Wednesday 
night temperatures should cool quite a bit, more so across the non-
urban locations. With mostly clear to partly cloudy conditions 
temperatures should cool primarily into the 40s, with lower 50s 
across the metro which is right around normal for this time of year.

High pressure begins to get further east during the day Thursday. 
Light and variable winds during the morning become more onshore out 
of the SE towards late morning and afternoon. Temperatures should 
reach their max by the start of the afternoon, especially further 
east. Then temperatures should trail off across coastal sections 
more so during the afternoon as the onshore flow gets established. 
Temperatures should max out around 70 well inland, but lower half of 
the 60s and upper 50s further east.

&&

.LONG TERM /THURSDAY NIGHT THROUGH TUESDAY/...
The long term period starts off Thursday night with low pressure 
moving across the Great Lakes region along with an upper level 
trough approaching the region. Its associated cold front will 
approach from the south and west, reaching portions of the 
forecast area Friday morning. Expect some chance POPs Thursday 
night into early Friday morning as moisture increase along with 
some lift associated with the front. Generally looking at just 
some light rain showers, however can not rule out an isolated 
rumble of thunder. 

There should be a brief break in the precip Friday morning, however 
chances increase once again Friday afternoon into Saturday as the 
upper trough and cold front approach and move over the region. This 
should bring a better chance of showers, along with a chance of 
thunder for much of the region. Some of the forecast guidance is 
also showing the potential for a frontal wave of low pressure 
developing along the boundary as it moves east, producing additional 
rainfall into the late weekend.  QPF outside any thunder should 
largely remain under an inch, though the slower progression of the 
entire system could enhance totals just a bit further.

There continues to be considerable uncertainty in the forecast from 
late weekend into early next week with whether or not the associated 
upper low is able able to push east or get cut off from the flow and 
meander nearby for several days. Will continue to keep at least 
chance POPs in the forecast for now through much of the extended, 
however it will be possible that part of next week will be dry. 

Friday will be the warmest day in the long term with highs in the 
upper 70s and middle 80s away from the maritime influence. Closer to 
the coast, highs will only be in the upper 60s and lower 70s. With 
unsettled conditions possible, expect high temperatures to be in the 
60s and lower 70s for the remainder of the long term.

&&

.AVIATION /06Z WEDNESDAY THROUGH SUNDAY/...
An approaching cold front will pass through the area from
approximately 4 to 8 am. 

VFR for the most part, though there is a chance that a 
weakening line of showers/thunderstorms ahead of the front may 
make it as far east as KSWF with MVFR cond and brief gusty 
winds. However, thunderstorms are seeming less likely as they 
work into a more stable airmass across the area. 

S/SW winds at 10-15 kt G20-25kt, strongest along the coast, 
will gradually veer and diminish ahead of the approaching cold 
front, shifting to the W-NW by daybreak Wednesday. Expect gusts
around 20kt to carry into the afternoon, although vertical wind
profiles do begin to weaken. However, we are often more efficient
with deeper mixing and stronger winds in W/NW flow, especially 
of late.

 ...NY Metro (KEWR/KLGA/KJFK/KTEB) TAF Uncertainty...

Gusts become more occasional overnight.

Wind shift with the cold front and onset of strengthening NW 
flow may vary by 1-2 hours. 

.OUTLOOK FOR 00Z THURSDAY THROUGH SUNDAY...

Wednesday night and Thursday: VFR. 

Thursday night: Chance of showers after midnight with MVFR cond
possible. 

Friday: Chance showers/tstms with MVFR or lower cond from mid
afternoon into the night. S winds G20kt at the NYC metros and
along the coast. 

Saturday: Showers likely and possibly a tstm with MVFR or lower
cond expected. 

Sunday: Chance of showers with MVFR cond likely. 

Detailed information, including hourly TAF wind component
forecasts, can be found at: https:/www.weather.gov/zny/n90

&&

.MARINE...
SCA has been allowed to expire on NY Harbor and Western LI
Sound. SCA conditions continue on the remaining waters overnight 
in a S/SW flow ahead of an approaching cold front. The front 
then passes through in the morning with gusts still above 25 kt 
and elevated seas on the ocean. SCA will linger for a time on 
the ocean Wednesday for marginal conditions. A period of sub- 
advisory conditions then follows for all waters for much of Weds
afternoon through Thursday night as a high pressure ridge 
shifts through the region.

Strengthening southerly flow associated with an approaching frontal 
system could introduce a period of SCA conditions on the ocean 
beginning Friday, with wind gusts up to 25 kt and seas 5 to 6 ft. 
Winds lighten Friday night, but elevated seas may linger into the 
weekend.

&&

.FIRE WEATHER...
NW winds pick up and will likely gust to around 25 mph at times
throughout this morning. The winds are then likely to decrease 
during the afternoon. Minimum RH levels are expected to be 20 to
30 percent resulting in another elevated risk of fire spread. 
Special Weather Statements have been collaborated with state 
agencies and will be issued for all of our NY, NJ, and CT zones 
today.

&&

.HYDROLOGY...
There are no hydrologic concerns through the forecast period.

&&

.OKX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CT...None.
NY...None.
NJ...None.
MARINE...Small Craft Advisory until 6 AM EDT early this morning for 
     ANZ331-332-340-345.
     Small Craft Advisory until 2 PM EDT this afternoon for ANZ350-
     353.
     Small Craft Advisory until 11 AM EDT this morning for ANZ355.

&&

$$

NEAR TERM...JC/JE
AVIATION...DR
