575 
FXUS61 KOKX 241957
AFDOKX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service New York NY
357 PM EDT Sat May 24 2025

.SYNOPSIS...
Low pressure over the Canadian Maritime remains through Sunday, then 
moves east and weakens Sunday night into Monday. High pressure 
builds into the northeast Monday and Monday night through 
Tuesday night. By midweek, high pressure moves offshore into the
Atlantic with a series of low pressure system moving through 
late in the week.

&&

.NEAR TERM /THROUGH SUNDAY/...
An upper trough over the northeast, with a closed upper low will 
remain nearly stationary tonight through much of Sunday before 
beginning to shift east and weaken late Sunday afternoon. Spokes of 
energy rotate around the upper low. With the loss of daytime heating 
early this evening scattered showers will dissipate.
Then with daytime heating and instability Sunday a few showers will 
be possible once again.  With the cyclonic flow continuing into 
Sunday, and a cool airmass over the region, daytime cloudiness 
Sunday will increase, and temperatures will remain below normal. 

&&

.SHORT TERM /SUNDAY NIGHT THROUGH MONDAY NIGHT/...
An upper closed low and trough over the northeast begins to move 
eastward as an elongated trough remains over the region. A ridge 
will be approaching to the west late Sunday night and heights will 
begin to rise, and continue rising into Monday night as a broad flat 
ridge builds toward the east coast. Surface high pressure also 
builds toward the area and will be overhead late Monday and 
Monday night. With slowly increasing subsidence not expecting 
any showers to develop Monday. However, there may be a few well 
inland, but not enough to have probabilities. Temperatures 
modify Monday with a little more sunshine likely.

&&

.LONG TERM /TUESDAY THROUGH SATURDAY/...
Upper levels exhibit a ridging pattern Tuesday through the middle of 
next week. At the surface, the center of high pressure will be close 
to the local region Tuesday. The high pressure area builds offshore 
Tuesday night and continues to move farther offshore out into the 
Atlantic Wednesday.

Dry conditions are expected to prevail Tuesday through much of 
Tuesday night. Temperatures are forecast to rebound, reaching more 
into the 70s for more areas on Tuesday with southerly flow and warm 
air advection.

For the middle to late portion of next week, low pressure will be 
approaching at the surface. Aloft, the ridge axis moves across 
Wednesday and then moves east of the region Wednesday night. 
Meanwhile, a strong cutoff low approaches and moves through the 
Great Lakes. The cutoff low transitions to a strong trough and 
approaches the local region Thursday through Friday. One strong 
embedded shortwave moves across early Friday. The overall synoptic 
pattern of trough over the Northeast remains heading into next 
weekend.

At the surface, multiple areas of low pressure approach, one from 
the Great Lakes and one from the mid-Atlantic. Both appear to be 
rather weak in magnitude. For Thursday through Thursday night a 
frontal system approaches the area. Associated cold front passes 
east of the area Friday with another one to follow for next Saturday.

Rain returns to the forecast late Tuesday night for parts of 
Northeast NJ but just a slight chance of rain showers. Chances for 
showers remain in the forecast Wednesday through Saturday. With 
models indicating some weak low level instability Thursday night and 
Friday, also have a slight chance of thunderstorms.

Regarding temperatures, cooler days forecast Wednesday and Thursday 
when there is forecast to be more onshore flow during the day. Range 
of high temperatures forecast mid 60s to lower 70s for those days. 
For Friday and Saturday, the forecast high temperatures those days 
are well into the 70s with more westerly component to the surface 
winds.

&&

.AVIATION /20Z SATURDAY THROUGH THURSDAY/...
Low pressure will continue to slowly track over the Canadian 
Maritimes through Sunday.

VFR. Isolated to scattered showers this afternoon and early evening 
could produce brief MVFR conditions.

W-WNW winds 10-15 kt with gusts 20-25 kt. Winds and gusts weaken 
tonight, settling to around 10 kt or less overnight. Winds WNW-NW 
winds Sunday increase to 10-15 kt with gusts around 20 kt.

 ...NY Metro (KEWR/KLGA/KJFK/KTEB) TAF Uncertainty...

Isolated showers possible through early evening. 

End time of gusts this evening may be off by 1-2 hours. 

.OUTLOOK FOR 18Z SUNDAY THROUGH THURSDAY...

Sunday Afternoon-Night: VFR. NW winds gusts around 20 kt. 

Monday-Tuesday: VFR.

Wednesday-Thursday: MVFR possible. Chance of showers.

Detailed information, including hourly TAF wind component forecasts, 
can be found at: https:/www.weather.gov/zny/n90

&&

.MARINE...
Nearshore gusts across New York Harbor, the south shore bays,
and along the ocean waters, remain around 25 kt through early 
this evening, and ocean seas east of Moriches Inlet were still 
near 5 feet. So, will let the SCA expire at 22Z.

Otherwise, low pressure remains over the Canadian Maritime 
tonight into Sunday, with gusty northwest winds once again 
during Sunday. However, gusts Sunday are likely to be below 25 
kt. There may be a few nearshore gusts near 25 kt, but will not
issue a SCA for Sunday. High pressure then builds toward the 
waters through Monday night. Once wind gusts diminish below 25 
kt by early this evening, winds and seas will remain below 
advisory levels on all the forecast waters through Monday night.
Pressure gradient remains relatively weak Tuesday through 
Thursday night, keeping below SCA conditions on the forecast 
waters. Conditions are actually forecast to stay well below SCA 
criteria much of the time. 

&&

.HYDROLOGY...
No hydrologic impacts expected.

&&

.TIDES/COASTAL FLOODING...
There is potential for localized minor coastal flooding Sunday
into early next week with a new moon occurring Monday evening, 
causing areas to need as little as 1/4 ft of tidal departure for
minor coastal flooding.

There is a high risk of rip currents along local Atlantic beaches 
through this evening due to elevated ocean seas up to 5 ft and 
WNW flow near 15 kt with stronger gusts. Modeled rip current 
probabilities yields highest threat from late morning into 
early afternoon.

Outlook for the rest of the Memorial Day Weekend: 

The rip current risk for Sunday is moderate as winds and seas 
gradually subside.

Rip current risk reduces to low for Memorial Day, as swells continue 
to subside.

&&

.OKX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CT...None.
NY...High Risk for Rip Currents until 9 PM EDT this evening for NYZ075-
     080-081-178-179.
NJ...None.
MARINE...Small Craft Advisory until 6 PM EDT this evening for ANZ338-
     345-350-353-355.

&&

$$

SYNOPSIS...JM/MET
NEAR TERM...MET
SHORT TERM...MET
LONG TERM...JM
AVIATION...DS
MARINE...JM/MET
HYDROLOGY...JM/MET
TIDES/COASTAL FLOODING...
