479 
FXUS61 KOKX 060603
AFDOKX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service New York NY
203 AM EDT Sun Jul 6 2025

.SYNOPSIS...
High pressure will remain in control through the weekend. A cold
front will approach from the Great Lakes on Monday, passing
slowly across on Tuesday and Tuesday night. The front may 
remain stalled over or just to the south of the area mid week. A
more robust frontal system approaches by the end of the week. 

&&

.NEAR TERM /THROUGH TONIGHT/...
Dry and warm conditions continue today with highs in the low-mid 90s 
in the usual warmest spots in NE NJ, and mostly upper 80s to around 
90 away from the immediate coast. Also, dew points will be a little 
higher than yesterday.  The combination of higher temperatures and 
dew points will result in heat index values in the low to mid 90s 
for NE NJ and the Lower Hudson Valley. Heat index values are 
expected to remain just below 95 degree mark. 

Tonight, the SW flow will continue across the area. This would be at 
least the 2nd consecutive night of onshore flow. Both the GFS and 
NAM soundings are showing the potential for fog and/or stratus 
across portions of the forecast area, especially along the coast. 
Lows should only fall into the lower and middle 70s. 

&&

.SHORT TERM /MONDAY THROUGH TUESDAY NIGHT/...
The high builds further offshore Monday with a cold front 
approaching from the west. With the high moving offshore, this will 
also allow some of the moisture associated with Chantal to approach 
from the south. POPs gradually increase through the morning, 
especially west of NYC. By afternoon, POPs become likely with areas 
of showers and thunderstorms. East of NYC, there will be a lower 
chance of POPs. 

Rain and thunderstorm chances continue into Monday night with the 
remnant system even closer, but there's still not enough confidence 
from the varying model solutions to go with likely PoPs. Some 
guidance even suggests a narrow band of subsidence forming over the 
forecast area between an approaching cold front from the west and 
Chantal's remnants from the south.

Please refer to the latest official forecast from the National 
Hurricane Center regarding tropical cyclone Chantal.

The unsettled conditions continue right into Tuesday and Tuesday 
night with the approach and passage of a cold front. Once again, 
showers and thunderstorms are expected to develop ahead of and along 
the front. With PWATs in the 2.0-2.5 inch range, expect any storms 
to be capable of locally heavy rainfall. The front eventually moves 
either offshore of remains over the far southeastern sections of the 
CWA into early Wednesday morning. 

With respect to temperatures in the short term. Temperatures Monday 
and Tuesday should be somewhat similar with highs in the 80s and 
lower 90s. Dew points however should be higher, especially with 
Chantals remnants getting a bit closer to the region. We do have 
some heat index values exceeding 95 on Monday across portions of the 
area, most notably NE NJ, the Lower Hudson Valley and into SE CT. As 
dew points climb further on Tuesday, more widespread 95 heat 
indices should be reached. However, one significant concern 
will be the amounts of cloud cover and rainfall chances, which 
could keep temperatures cooler than forecast. Either way, it 
will be a very muggy two days. For now, the plan is to hold off 
on any heat headlines for Monday and Tuesday. 

&&

.LONG TERM /WEDNESDAY THROUGH SATURDAY/...
Despite the unsettled nature of the extended forecast, global models 
were in fairly decent agreement, so the NBM was followed.

Disturbances in the flow will traverse the area through much of the 
middle of the week. By the end of the week, more robust energy in 
the flow approaches from the west and allows the trough to dig into 
the Northeast. This will provide for a better opportunity for 
showers and storms as well as slight decreases in temperatures. High 
pressure may try to build in from the northeast by Saturday.

Despite chances for showers each day, high temperatures should 
remain in the mid 80s through mid week, and upper 70s to lower 80s 
by the end of the week. 

&&

.AVIATION /06Z SUNDAY THROUGH THURSDAY/...
VFR through today as high pressure remains offshore. IFR in fog and 
low stratus may return late Sunday night into Monday morning. 

Winds should be S-SW less than 10 kt through daybreak. S-SW winds 
redevelop mid/late morning, increasing to 10-15 kt with gusts up to 
20 kt possible this afternoon. A more southerly sea breeze should 
once again make it to KEWR/KTEB late. Winds drop below 10 kt Sunday 
night, possibly going light and variable at outlying terminals.

 ...NY Metro (KEWR/KLGA/KJFK/KTEB) TAF Uncertainty... 

No unscheduled AMD expected. 

.OUTLOOK FOR 06Z MONDAY THROUGH THURSDAY... 

Monday through Thursday: Mainly afternoon and evening showers/tstms 
possible with MVFR or IFR cond. Highest chance exists from late Mon 
through Tue evening. 

Detailed information, including hourly TAF wind component forecasts, 
can be found at: https:/www.weather.gov/zny/n90

&&

.MARINE...
Sub-SCA conditions are expected on all waters through at least 
Sunday morning. Some gusts close to 25 kt are possible Sunday
afternoon/evening on the ocean with seas climbing to around 4 
ft. Sub-advisory conditions are then likely for Monday through 
Friday, with seas on ocean waters possibly climbing to 5 feet 
Friday night. 

&&

.HYDROLOGY...
Some tropical moisture may feed into the area Tuesday and Tuesday 
night which may allow for an environment supportive of locally heavy 
rainfall. WPC has portions of the area in a marginal risk for 
excessive rainfall for this time frame.

&&

.TIDES/COASTAL FLOODING...
The rip risk for all beaches will be moderate both Sunday and
Monday, given the southerly flow and increasing southerly swell.
Surf heights around three ft are likely over the period, but 
may increase to near 4ft by Monday, especially across NYC, 
Nassau and western Suffolk beaches.

&&

.OKX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CT...Air Quality Alert from 11 AM this morning to 11 PM EDT this 
     evening for CTZ005-009.
NY...None.
NJ...Air Quality Alert from 11 AM this morning to 11 PM EDT this 
     evening for NJZ002-004-006-103>108.
MARINE...None.

&&

$$

SYNOPSIS...BC
NEAR TERM...BC
SHORT TERM...BC
LONG TERM...
AVIATION...BR
MARINE...BC/BR
HYDROLOGY...BC/BR/MW
TIDES/COASTAL FLOODING...
