684 
FXUS61 KOKX 221150
AFDOKX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service New York NY
750 AM EDT Sat Mar 22 2025

.SYNOPSIS...
After a weak cold frontal passage this evening and fair weather on 
Sunday, precipitation will overspread the area Sunday night and 
Monday. Weakening low pressure will track across eastern Canada
Tuesday into Tuesday night, with another weak low passing to 
the south Tuesday night into Wednesday. High pressure then builds
in for the end of the week.

&&

.NEAR TERM /UNTIL 6 PM THIS EVENING/...
A cold front over the eastern Great Lakes this morning will 
approach the area today, preceded by a prefrontal trough this
afternoon. Mild SW-S winds will steadily increase this morning,
becoming gusty in the afternoon as winds veer more westerly. 
Mid and high level clouds increasing across the area will result
in filtered sunshine. The llvls are dry though so no pcpn 
expected until the front arrives late this aftn and eve. 

Mainly a dry fropa is modeled with the moisture starved sys. Both 
the ECMWF and GFS drive enough forcing thru to produce a few shwrs 
or sprinkles, with the NAM notably drier. For the grids, blended the 
21Z SREF with the NBM to get an output that looked reasonable. 
Chance pops W and slight chance to no pops ern areas. 

CAA on a gusty NW flow tngt drops temps into the 20s for the 
entire area. Gusts of 25-35 mph are expected the first half of
tonight, before gradually subsiding.


&&

.SHORT TERM /6 PM THIS EVENING THROUGH MONDAY NIGHT/...
High pres ridges across the region on Sun so fair wx. Temps cooler 
with h85 around -5 before warming late in the day. WAA aloft will 
result in increasing clouds Sun eve, and as the theta-e ridge 
builds in, pcpn should develop overnight. Enough cold air across
the interior for a mix of rain and snow before changing over to
all rain in the lljet pcpn regime. The rain exits the area 
fairly quickly on Mon with the dry slot coming thru. There could
be some residual dz and clouds before the wly flow scours it 
out in the aftn. Because the sys is still a few days away, fcst 
pops are a bit spread out. Expect these to narrow a bit as the 
timing is better resolved. 

A few shwrs might be possible Mon ngt as the upr trof approaches 
with steepening lapse rates and dpva, but the airmass is so dry it 
looks like it will be difficult to get pcpn attm. Stuck with the NBM 
pops for now which is mostly dry.

The NBM was used for temps thru the period.

&&

.LONG TERM /TUESDAY THROUGH FRIDAY/...
This will be a relatively benign period for the area with the mean 
upper trough residing across eastern Canada and the Northeast.
Heights begin to build toward the end of the period with a more 
zonal flow developing. Expect temperatures during at or just above 
normal in the Tuesday through Thursday timeframe before warming up 
on Friday. Next chance for precipitation will be late Tuesday night 
into Wednesday as a piece of jet energy races across the Ohio Valley 
and off the Mid Atlantic coast. The forecast area resides at the 
northern periphery of what is initially a weak low. There could be a 
brief mix of wet snow at the onset across some of the higher 
elevations well north and west of the NYC metro. Liquid equivalent 
amounts at this time look to be under a quarter of an inch.

Stayed close to NBM guidance with no significant targets of 
opportunity at this time.

&&

.AVIATION /12Z SATURDAY THROUGH WEDNESDAY/...
A cold front approaches from the west today. The front will be 
preceded by a pre-frontal trough that passes through in the 
afternoon, followed by an evening cold frontal passage.

VFR. S-SW winds will gradually increase this morning with gusts
up to 20 kt late morning and early afternoon, increasing to 
around 25 kt by late afternoon. Winds will then become NW in the
evening behind the cold front with similar gusts. 

There is a low chance of showers for the metro terminals and 
Lower Hudson Valley terminals this afternoon into early this
evening. However, kept the mention out of the eastern terminals.

 ...NY Metro (KEWR/KLGA/KJFK/KTEB) TAF Uncertainty... 

Onset of gusts and wind shifts late this morning into this evening 
may vary by 1-2 hours. Gusts could be more occasional in the early 
evening hours Saturday before the cold frontal passage.

.OUTLOOK FOR 12Z SUNDAY THROUGH WEDNESDAY...

Sunday: VFR. NW G20kt in the morning. 

Sunday Night and Monday: Becoming IFR with rain. Possible onset as 
snow for KSWF. S winds G15-25kt, strongest near the coast on Monday.

Tuesday: VFR. SW winds G15-20 kt possible.

Wednesday: MVFR possible. Chance of showers. 

Detailed information, including hourly TAF wind component forecasts, 
can be found at: https:/www.weather.gov/zny/n90

&&

.MARINE...
SW flow will increase and seas will build on the ocean this aftn. A 
SCA has been issued for the ocean starting at 18Z. Aft a cfp early 
this eve, NW winds pick up and a sca has been issued for all waters 
for tngt. Seas may linger aoa 5 ft on the ocean Sun mrng, but high 
pres building in will keep winds lgt. A SCA may be needed Mon, 
especially on the ocean, as a frontal sys tracks thru the area.

Lingering seas around 5 ft on the ocean Tuesday will subside below 
SCA by evening. The period will then be marked by a westerly flow 
with sub-SCA conditions through the mid week.

&&

.HYDROLOGY...
No hydrologic impacts are expected thru the end of next week.

&&

.OKX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CT...None.
NY...None.
NJ...None.
MARINE...Small Craft Advisory from 8 PM this evening to 6 AM EDT Sunday 
     for ANZ331-332-335-338-340-345.
     Small Craft Advisory from 2 PM this afternoon to 6 AM EDT 
     Sunday for ANZ350-353-355.

&&

$$

SYNOPSIS...JMC/DW
NEAR TERM...JMC/DW
SHORT TERM...JMC
LONG TERM...DW
AVIATION...DW
MARINE...JMC/DW
HYDROLOGY...JMC/DW
