761 
FXUS61 KOKX 191159
AFDOKX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service New York NY
659 AM EST Wed Feb 19 2025

.SYNOPSIS...
High pressure builds in from the south and west today. Deepening low 
pressure along the Mid Atlantic coast passes well south and east of 
the area Thursday and Thursday night. Thereafter, a large dome 
of high pressure over the mid section of the country builds in 
through the weekend. A series of clipper lows will then approach
from the Great Lakes early next week.

&&

.NEAR TERM /THROUGH TONIGHT/...
Broad sheared polar trough extending from the Northern Plains to New 
England remains in place today. At the surface, the tight pressure 
gradient slowly relents as a piece of a strong 1050 mb high centered 
over the Central US builds in from the Mid Atlantic while sprawling 
low pressure exits into the North Atlantic toward Greenland. This 
will allow winds to lighten from the brisk conditions the region has 
experienced the past couple of days.

After another frigid start, temperatures largely in the teens down 
to the coast and wind chills in the single digits to near zero, it 
remains sub freezing this afternoon, forecast highs in the upper 20s 
to around 30.

Into tonight, a closed upper low trough digs south of the Great 
Lakes, with surface low pressure developing over the South, before
pushing offshore tonight. High cloud canopy gradually thickens and
lowers thru the day with the associated moisture advection aloft.
Expecting conditions to remain dry overnight.

&&

.SHORT TERM /THURSDAY THROUGH THURSDAY NIGHT/...
Guidance continues to point towards deepening low pressure tracking 
well south and east of the region Thursday, with little to no 
snowfall locally the most likely scenario. The only exception may
be across far eastern Long Island, mainly the South Fork, where
a light snowfall remains an unlikely, but possible, solution.

Perhaps more likely than from the surface low, potential exists
for snow showers to develop as the vigorous parent upper low 
passes over the region into Thursday evening. Moisture 
convergence along a weak inverted trough extending back from the
surface low may also aid this possibility with additional lift.
Hi res CAMs hint at isolated to scattered snow showers moving 
thru late day and during the evening hours. Any activity that 
does develop is expected to be light, and accumulation, if any, 
is likely limited to a coating at best in areas that do see 
precip. Otherwise, overcast Thursday night into Friday morning 
with temperatures in the teens and 20s.

&&

.LONG TERM /FRIDAY THROUGH TUESDAY/...
* A gradual warmup into early next week. 

A departing storm system over the north Atlantic will be followed by 
a confluent, progressive upper flow across the eastern half of the 
country. This will allow strong high pressure (1040mb+) centered 
over the mid section of the country on Friday to build east and 
gradually weaken through the weekend. A gusty NW flow can be 
expected on Friday between the departing low and building high, with 
gusts of 20 to 30 mph. The high passes to the south Sunday into 
Monday. A series of mid level shortwaves then drop out of the 
Canadian Rockies, sending clipper lows out of the Great Lakes and 
into the Northeast early next week. There is a low chance of rain 
and/or snow during this time. There are some small timing 
differences early next week and for the most part stayed close to 
the National Blend of Models. 

Temperatures during this time period will start out 5-10 degrees 
below normal, but gradually warm up through the weekend and into 
early next week. By next Tuesday, expecting readings about 5-8 
degrees above normal, with highs in the mid 40s to around 50, and 
lows in the 30s.

&&

.AVIATION /11Z WEDNESDAY THROUGH SUNDAY/...
VFR as high pressure builds in from the southwest today. Low
pressure then passes well south and east of the area Thursday
into Thursday night.

WNW winds mostly left of 310 magnetic at 10-15 kt with gusts to
around 20 kt will begin to diminish mid to late afternoon as a 
mid level deck overspread the terminals. Winds then become NW-N  
tonight at less than 10 kt. 

 ...NY Metro (KEWR/KLGA/KJFK/KTEB) TAF Uncertainty...

Gusts may be more occasional through this afternoon. 

.OUTLOOK FOR 12Z THURSDAY THROUGH SUNDAY...

Thursday: Chance MVFR or lower in light snow mainly for the 
terminals E of the NYC metros during the afternoon and evening
hours, otherwise VFR. NW winds G20-25kt at night. 

Friday: VFR. NW winds G20-25 kt.

Saturday and Sunday: VFR. 

Detailed information, including hourly TAF wind component forecasts, 
can be found at: https:/www.weather.gov/zny/n90

&&

.MARINE...
WNW or NW flow today with gusts at or above 25 kt gradually 
subsiding into this afternoon. Small Craft Advisory remains in 
effect on all waters thru mid morning, but should be able to 
expire everywhere by 1 PM. Thereafter, sub SCA conditions 
persist thru Thursday with lighter flow and seas. Light freezing
spray remains possible everywhere through this morning as well.

Small Craft Advisory conditions likely return Thursday night into 
Friday in the wake of deepening offshore low pressure as it tracks 
northeast into the North Atlantic. SCA conditions continue 
through Friday for all waters, then will be limited to mainly 
the ocean through Friday night. Sub advisory conditions then 
prevail through the upcoming weekend with a weaker pressure 
gradient as a high pressure ridge is followed by a weak trough.

&&

.HYDROLOGY...
No hydrologic impacts are expected through the week.

&&

.TIDES/COASTAL FLOODING...
Low water conditions gradually improve with lightening winds, 
but water levels during low tides today may still run 1 to 1.5 
ft below MLLW along parts of the Western LI Sound and the 
Peconic and Gardiners Bays.

&&

.OKX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CT...None.
NY...None.
NJ...None.
MARINE...Small Craft Advisory until 10 AM EST this morning for ANZ331-
     332-335-338-340-345.
     Small Craft Advisory until 1 PM EST this afternoon for ANZ350-
     353-355.

&&

$$

SYNOPSIS...DR/DW
NEAR TERM...DR
SHORT TERM...DR
LONG TERM...DW
AVIATION...DW
MARINE...DR/DW
HYDROLOGY...DR/DW
TIDES/COASTAL FLOODING...DR
