720 
FXUS61 KOKX 280744
AFDOKX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service New York NY
344 AM EDT Mon Apr 28 2025

.SYNOPSIS...
High pressure will be in control today through Tuesday, followed by 
a cold front during Tuesday night. High pressure then returns for 
Wednesday and Thursday before another frontal system impacts the 
area Thursday night through Saturday. High pressure then builds in 
for the end of next weekend.

&&

.NEAR TERM /THROUGH TONIGHT/...
Deep layered ridging through the period with the surface high center 
drifting off the Mid-Atlantic coast this afternoon. This will allow 
sea breezes to develop, but not before temperatures climb above 
normals even in spots affected by the onshore winds. Highs generally 
in the 70s. Mainly clear conditions then continue through tonight. 
Winds will be light tonight, but from the SW, so this along with 
today's warmth will lead to above normal low temperatures by about 5 
degrees. Lows mostly 50-55. 

&&

.SHORT TERM /TUESDAY THROUGH WEDNESDAY NIGHT/...
Low pressure tracks across SE Canada, dragging a cold front through 
the forecast area late Tuesday night. Forcing and moisture will be 
lacking, but upstream weakening convection may survive long enough 
to have a few showers for parts of the area during Tuesday night. 
CAMs and some deterministic regional and global models currently 
showing a better chance of precip reaching here versus what's 
implied by NBM PoPs and qpf output. Have therefore bumped up precip 
chances from NBM, but still below 50%. Can't rule out thunder either 
NW of the city during the evening, but severe wx not anticipated. 
It's also likely that there's a wide range of high temperatures 
across the area during Tuesday as SW flow holds most of the southern 
coasts of LI and SE CT into the 60s. Highs then range upward into 
the low to mid 80s for the urban corridor of NE NJ where temps were 
adjusted upward a few degrees from NBM based on mostly sunny 
conditions and h8 temps near 13-14C.

High pressure builds back in from the NW behind the cold front with 
slight ridging aloft during Wednesday. This keeps us dry through 
Wednesday night. The position of the high along with a NW flow that 
will probably be just strong enough to ward off any seabreezes for 
most or all of the daytime will allow for highs mostly in the
70s.

&&

.LONG TERM /THURSDAY THROUGH SUNDAY/...
Ridging aloft centered over the Eastern US midweek begins to 
translate east to start the period. Along with it, broad surface 
high pressure shifts offshore and return flow develops Thursday. 
Thereafter, a digging trough into the Great Lakes region with a 
couple embedded shortwaves will send a frontal system toward the 
region late in the week. Associated warm front looks to lift through 
locally Thursday night, followed by a cold frontal passage Friday 
night, bringing an increased chance for showers, and perhaps a few 
tstorms as well. Global ensembles continue to dry out the region 
Saturday as high pressure builds in from the west, though timing 
differences remain, with the 00Z EPS a bit quicker with the exiting 
system than the GEFS. QPF looks modest, under an inch outside any 
localized convective maxima.

Seasonable temperatures to start the period on Thursday, highs in 
the 60s and lower 70s. Region appears warm sectored Friday, setting 
up the warmest day of the week. Temperatures away from maritime 
influence, generally west of the Hudson, likely climb into the upper 
70s and lower 80s, with potential for even mid 80s. Cooler along the 
immediate coast with onshore southerly flow, closer to 70. The 
region falls back to more typical conditions over the weekend behind 
a cold fropa.

&&

.AVIATION /08Z MONDAY THROUGH FRIDAY/...
High pressure builds in through the day, sliding offshore into 
tonight.

VFR thru TAF period.

NW flow up to around 10 kt to start persists thru this morning.
Winds back more W-SW this afternoon, earliest at immediate coastal 
terminals, with speeds remaining around or under 10 kt.
General light SW flow then continues overnight into Tuesday, or 
light and vrb at some terminals. Skies largely remain SKC, with high 
cirrus developing late in TAF.

 ...NY Metro (KEWR/KLGA/KJFK/KTEB) TAF Uncertainty...

Timing of SW wind shift this afternoon could be 1-3 hours off from 
TAF.

.OUTLOOK FOR 06Z TUESDAY THROUGH FRIDAY...

Late Tonight: VFR.

Tuesday: Mainly VFR. Slight chance of MVFR with showers at night. SW 
wind gusts 15-20 kt afternoon and at night.

Wednesday: VFR. W-NW wind gusts 15-20 kt during day.

Thursday: VFR during day. MVFR or lower possible with a chance of 
showers and slight chance of thunderstorms at night. 

Friday: MVFR or lower possible with a chance of showers. Slight 
chance of thunderstorms. SW wind gusts 15-20 kt afternoon into early 
evening.

Detailed information, including hourly TAF wind component forecasts, 
can be found at: https:/www.weather.gov/zny/n90

&&

.MARINE...
Conditions remain below advisory thresholds across all waters today 
through Tuesday morning. Winds and seas then increase ahead of an 
approaching cold front, which is expected to pass through late 
Tuesday night into Wednesday morning. Had enough confidence to go 
with a SCA on the ocean from noon Tuesday through Tuesday night, and 
this will likely need to be extended further in time. As for the non-
ocean waters, not enough confidence to extend beyond the 3rd period, 
so for the time being, the advisory is for Tuesday afternoon
only.

Increasing southerly flow is expected late Thursday into Friday as a 
frontal system begins to move through the region. This may lead to a 
period of SCA conditions on the ocean, especially Friday, with 
wind gusts up to 25 kt and seas 5 to 6 ft

&&

.FIRE WEATHER...
RH values fall to 20-25% in several locations today, however winds 
will be light, mainly below 15 mph, so no concerns for fire spread. 
For Tuesday, RH may fall to around 30% for parts of NE NJ and the 
Lower Hudson Valley with afternoon gusts potentially exceeding 
20 mph. Current dewpoint forecast may be too low based on a SW 
flow, but at least a low chance of fire spread exists.

&&

.HYDROLOGY...
There are no hydrologic concerns through the forecast period.

&&

.OKX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CT...None.
NY...None.
NJ...None.
MARINE...Small Craft Advisory from noon to 6 PM EDT Tuesday for ANZ331-
     332-335-338-340-345.
     Small Craft Advisory from noon Tuesday to 6 AM EDT Wednesday 
     for ANZ350-353-355.

&&

$$

SYNOPSIS...JC/DR
NEAR TERM...JC
SHORT TERM...JC
LONG TERM...DR
AVIATION...DR
MARINE...JC/DR
FIRE WEATHER...
HYDROLOGY...JC/DR
