863 
FXUS61 KOKX 250534
AFDOKX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service New York NY
134 AM EDT Tue Mar 25 2025

.SYNOPSIS...
A weak cold front passes through the area overnight. A surface 
trough lingers nearby on Tuesday followed by another low passing
well south and east of the area late Tuesday night into 
Wednesday. High pressure then builds in from the southwest on 
Thursday, passing to the south on Friday as a weak disturbance 
passes to the north. A frontal system is forecast to impact the 
area over the weekend into Monday.

&&

.NEAR TERM /UNTIL 6 AM THIS MORNING/...
Patchy fog, some of which is locally dense, continues across
the forecast area with light winds and residual low level
moisture following a rainy Monday. Guidance has largely been to
quick with drying out the low level and a dissipating cold front
works across the area overnight. Improvement will be slow from
west to east. An SPS up for the area will likely need to be 
extended for portions of the area at 2 am.

Mid and upper level clouds associated with an upper jet will
make for a mostly cloudy night. Lows will fall into the 30s 
inland, and the upper 40s to lower 40s at the coast. A few
locations across western Orange county could get to freezing.

&&

.SHORT TERM /6 AM THIS MORNING THROUGH 6 PM WEDNESDAY/...
Broad upper troughing will persist over the northeast through 
Wednesday. Model guidance has come into much better agreement
with keeping a weak low pressure far enough away from the 
region for little to no precip Tuesday night and early 
Wednesday.

Surface low pressure will slowly spin across northern New
England and southeast Canada on Tuesday. A surface trough will 
likely persist over the region, especially in the afternoon. 
High pressure will remain well to our south. A modest pressure 
gradient over the area along with a well mixed boundary layer 
will promote a breezy Tuesday with potential of SW gusts 20-25 
mph, mainly in the afternoon and early evening. The deep mixing 
and SW flow along with late march sun under partly cloudy skies 
should allow temperatures to warm well into the 50s. Some of the
usual warm spots could touch 60 degrees in the afternoon. 

High clouds begin increasing in the evening as the next 500 mb 
shortwave begins to amplify to our west. The associated vort
energy passes to the south and interacts with the lingering 
surface trough over the eastern seaboard to develop a low 
pressure Tuesday night. Previous model cycles were differing in 
the placement of the energy along with the associated developing
surface low. The 12z guidance has come into much better 
agreement with the developing low and any associated lift and 
precip remaining well south and east of Long Island Tuesday 
night into Wednesday. NBM PoPs appear to be too high given the 
latest trends and have gone much lower for this time period. The
system is progressive and while there is some amplification 
aloft, there does not appear to be enough time to have this low 
develop close enough to the coast to support another period of 
widespread precip. Have trended PoPs much lower, but still will 
show precip probabilities around 20 to 30 percent. Thermal 
profiles would support a wet snow/cold rain mix inland and cold 
rain closer to the coast if precip were to develop. However, as 
noted this is becoming a much lower chance and it is quite 
possible the entire area remains dry.

The moves further offshore Wednesday afternoon with the upper
trough continuing aloft. Weak cold advection is likely in the 
afternoon, but clearing skies should lead to temperatures 
approaching seasonable levels in the upper 40s and lower 50s. 
W winds could also become a bit gusty in the afternoon with 
potential of gusts up to 20 or 25 mph as high pressure starts 
building in from the west.

&&

.LONG TERM /WEDNESDAY NIGHT THROUGH MONDAY/...
Longwave trough axis will be shifting through the region
during Wednesday night and will be east of us by Thursday 
morning. A cyclonic flow however remains aloft through Thursday 
night. Moisture will be limited during this period, so expecting
dry weather. The only exception would be Thursday night as a 
weak warm front provides some lift for perhaps a stray sprinkle 
or flurry. Highs mostly 50-55 on Thursday, then 55-60 for 
Friday.

A weak cold front then passes through from the north with more
of a zonal flow aloft, most likely during Friday night. Models 
differ regarding the location of the stalled front, making the 
temperature and precip chance forecasts relatively lower in 
confidence through at least Sunday. It would appear that the 
cold front stalls not to far to our south through the weekend 
before moving back north as a warm front Sunday night into 
Monday with perhaps some help from a low level jet as low 
pressure shifts into the eastern Great Lakes Region. A cold 
front would then follow during Monday afternoon or night when a 
shortwave helps the flow aloft become more amplified.

Went with 20-30% chance of rain for Friday night through Sunday
as overrunning remains a constant threat. Chances then increase
to 50% Sunday night through Monday evening, accounting for both
warm and cold front passages as the center of the approaching 
storm system draws nearer.

As for temperatures, NBM box and whisker plots for Saturday
through Monday continue to show 10 to 20 degree spreads between
the 25th and 75th percentiles, most notably for the high 
temperatures. As previously mentioned, will go with the scenario
that the stalled front remains to our south through Sunday, 
which aligns with climatology for this time of the year as the 
parent low center of the upcoming storm is still well off to our
west and fairly weak through this time. This puts us on the 
cooler side of the envelope for both Saturday and Sunday and 
goes along the lines of the deterministic NBM forecast which is 
cooler than its ensemble median and closer to the 25th 
percentile. Then with a better chance of the warm front moving 
north through the area, warmer temperatures on Monday versus the
weekend, but they could be tempered by potential cloud cover 
and rainfall. Deterministic and median NBM are at least in 
better agreement for temperatures on Monday.

&&

.AVIATION /05Z TUESDAY THROUGH SATURDAY/...
A surface trough remains over the area today. Weak low pressure
passes well to our southeast tonight.

Some low stratus and patchy fog has developed and has brought 
in some LIFR conditions. Improvement is expected between 06-09z
with a wind shift associated with a frontal passage. There is
some uncertainty with the timing of improving conditions this 
morning. Conditions may not improve until closer to 12z. VFR 
expected thereafter through the end of the TAF period.

W/SW flow continues through the forecast period with gusts to 
around 25 kt developing 12Z to 14Z Tuesday. Occasional gusts up 
to 30 kt are possible. Winds become light from the NW tonight.

 ...NY Metro (KEWR/KLGA/KJFK/KTEB) TAF Uncertainty... 

Timing of improving fog and low cigs may not occur until closer
to 12z

Occasional gusts around 30 kt are possible today, mainly in the
mid to late morning hours.

.OUTLOOK FOR 06Z WEDNESDAY THROUGH SATURDAY...

Wednesday: VFR. Afternoon W/NW wind gusts 15-20 kt.

Thursday: VFR.

Friday: VFR. W wind gusts 15-20 kt.

Saturday: Mainly VFR. A slight chance of light rain. E wind gusts 15-
20 kt.

Detailed information, including hourly TAF wind component forecasts, 
can be found at: https:/www.weather.gov/zny/n90

&&

.MARINE...
The SCA remains in effect on the ocean tonight. Winds will 
continue to diminish early this evening, but seas will remain 
elevated above 5 ft. The elevated seas are likely to persist 
through Tuesday, especially east of Fire Island Inlet. Have 
extended the SCA into the morning west of Fire Island Inlet and 
into Tuesday evening to Moriches Inlet. East of Moriches the SCA
will now run through early Wednesday morning. Conditions will 
otherwise remain below SCA levels on the waters tonight through 
Wednesday.

Sub advisory conditions are expected on all waters Wednesday 
night through Saturday with a relatively weak pressure gradient 
through the period. There are however a few periods up through 
Friday when gusts could be near 25kt on the ocean waters as the 
gradient strengthens a little.

&&

.HYDROLOGY...
No hydrologic impacts are expected through the upcoming weekend.

&&

.OKX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CT...None.
NY...None.
NJ...None.
MARINE...Small Craft Advisory until 2 AM EDT Wednesday for ANZ350.
     Small Craft Advisory until 6 PM EDT this evening for ANZ353.
     Small Craft Advisory until 11 AM EDT this morning for ANZ355.

&&

$$

SYNOPSIS...JC/DS/DW
NEAR TERM...DS/JT/DW
SHORT TERM...DS
LONG TERM...JC
AVIATION...BC
MARINE...JC/DS
HYDROLOGY...JC/DS
