271 
FXUS61 KOKX 222147
AFDOKX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service New York NY
547 PM EDT Fri Aug 22 2025

.SYNOPSIS...
High pressure builds overhead tonight then offshore Saturday. A
frontal system approaches Sunday evening and moves slowly 
through the area Sunday night into Monday. High pressure then 
gradually builds in for the middle to end of next week.

&&

.NEAR TERM /UNTIL 6 AM SATURDAY MORNING/...
High pressure will build overhead tonight, providing the region with 
clear skies and dry conditions. Winds continue to diminish this 
evening, becoming light and variable tonight. Low temperatures will 
be in the upper 50s and 60s.

&&

.SHORT TERM /6 AM SATURDAY MORNING THROUGH SATURDAY NIGHT/...
Dry weather continues as high pressure remains offshore. As the high 
moves further offshore, a frontal system approaches from the west.
Temperatures on Saturday will be in the lower to middle 80s. 
Saturday night expect lows in the 60s. Lows Saturday night will be 
slightly above normal. Clouds will increase late Saturday night 
ahead of the approaching cold front.

&&

.LONG TERM /SUNDAY THROUGH FRIDAY/...
Key Points:

* Shower/thunderstorm chances late Sunday into Monday. Mainly dry 
  conditions Tuesday through Friday.

* Near normal temperatures on Sunday and Monday, then a slight 
  cooldown to below normal highs from Tuesday onward.

There has been no significant change to the forecast thinking for 
the extended period, and the global models remain in decent 
agreement. Synoptic-scale ridging pushes east of the area Sunday 
allowing for a deep southwest flow to develop ahead of a deepening 
closed upper low over eastern Canada. This low over eastern Canada 
extends an h5 trough over the eastern 2/3 of the CONUS then remains 
over the east for much of the rest of the extended timeframe. This 
will keep the local area in predominately west/southwest flow aloft 
for much of the week.

At the sfc, a cold front approaches on Sunday into early Monday, 
slowing as it does so, becoming parallel to the mid and upper flow. 
Precipitation chances increase from west to east Sunday afternoon, 
with a slower approach than in previous cycles, and most of the area 
will remain precipitation free until later Sunday. PWATs do increase 
to 1-1.75" ahead of the front, which suggests the possibility of 
heavier rainfall with any deeper convection. Thunder chances have 
decreased a bit, given the later timing of the approaching front, 
with limited instability and better forcing north of the area.
North and west of NYC would see the best chance of thunder late 
Sunday, and thus have constrained thunder chances there for that 
timeframe. By Monday, the front moves through the area providing 
another round of showers and embedded thunder. Given the slow 
movement of the system in general, localized heavy rain may still be 
possible, especially north and west of NYC. NBM probabilities of >2" 
in 24 hours are <10% at this time, however, so not looking at any 
widespread heavy rainfall.

The front pushes offshore by early Tuesday. High pressure then 
builds back in from the Central Plains, for the remainder of the 
period.

&&

.AVIATION /22Z FRIDAY THROUGH WEDNESDAY/...
High pressure gradually builds from the west, moving overhead 
tonight, then offshore on Saturday. 

VFR through the period. 

late day seabreezes are expected today and then once again on 
Saturday afternoon. Winds overnight become light and variable. 

 ...NY Metro (KEWR/KLGA/KJFK/KTEB) TAF Uncertainty...

Late day S seabreeze likely for JFK/KLGA, and SE for KEWR.

.OUTLOOK FOR 12Z SATURDAY THROUGH TUESDAY...

Saturday: VFR.

Sunday and Monday: Scattered showers Sun PM through Mon PM, isolated 
tstm possible in the aft/eve. MVFR conds possible Sun AM, and Sun 
night into Mon AM.

Tuesday and Wednesday: VFR.

Detailed information, including hourly TAF wind component forecasts, 
can be found at: https:/www.weather.gov/zny/n90

&&

.MARINE...
New wave guidance not significantly different than previous
forecast with no changes to the small craft advisories already
in place across the ocean zones.

High pressure builds in from the west as Hurricane Erin moves 
further offshore. 

Small Craft Advisories remain on the ocean waters west of Moriches 
Inlet through midday Saturday, and east of Moriches Inlet through 
the day Saturday, with the swells subsiding. There is a chance
small craft advisories could need extending with subsequent
forecasts into late Saturday and perhaps Saturday night, but 
new wave guidance is marginal for SCA at just 5 ft for the ocean,
so it will be marginal.

Conditions then remain below advisory levels for all waters into
mid next week.

&&

.HYDROLOGY...
There are no hydrologic concerns through the middle of next
week.

&&

.TIDES/COASTAL FLOODING...
A High Surf Advisory remains in effect for all Atlantic Ocean 
Beaches until 8PM this evening as residual swell from Tropical 
cyclone Erin continues a life threatening surf and rip current 
threat. A High Risk for Rip Currents goes through Sunday 
for the Atlantic Ocean beaches as swells continue to slowly 
subside. Please refer to the National Hurricane Center for 
further information on Erin.

The surf has already peaked but new wave guidance indicates a
slower downward trend with waves. Waves have only lowered at
nearby buoys by about a foot since this morning. With dominant
long period swell oriented ESE, still going to get high surf,
especially across the more exposed Nassau and Suffolk County
ocean beaches. The high surf advisory remains until 8PM this
evening for NYC ocean beaches but for Nassau and Suffolk has
been extended until 4AM Saturday. Wanted to cover the expected
dune erosion continuing farther east as well during respective 
high tides tonight with the high surf extension. The surf will 
be near 6 to 8 ft. 

Areas of dune erosion and beach flooding are still expected, 
but the potential for localized overwashes is lower as water 
levels will be lower than previous cycle last evening. The 
threat for dune erosion will therefore not be as widespread and 
more scattered for this evening's high tide, with beach erosion 
and escarpment the primary threat with a west to east sweeping 
surf. 

The generally minor to localized moderate coastal flooding threat
continues for this evening's cycles with coastal flood 
advisories and coastal flood statements in place. Additional
minor coastal flooding anticipated for early Saturday but more
localized with statements up for South Shore Bays of Long Island
and Southern Westchester and Southern Fairfield coastlines for
early Saturday.

&&

.OKX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CT...Coastal Flood Advisory from 10 PM this evening to 2 AM EDT 
     Saturday for CTZ009.
NY...Coastal Flood Advisory from 10 PM this evening to 2 AM EDT 
     Saturday for NYZ071.
     Coastal Flood Advisory until 11 PM EDT this evening for NYZ074-
     075.
     High Risk for Rip Currents through Sunday evening for NYZ075-080-
     081-178-179.
     High Surf Advisory until 8 PM EDT this evening for NYZ075-178.
     High Surf Advisory until 4 AM EDT Saturday for NYZ080-081-179.
     Coastal Flood Advisory until 2 AM EDT Saturday for NYZ080-081-
     178-179.
NJ...Coastal Flood Advisory until 11 PM EDT this evening for NJZ006-
     106-108.
MARINE...Small Craft Advisory until 6 PM EDT Saturday for ANZ350.
     Small Craft Advisory until 2 PM EDT Saturday for ANZ353-355.

&&

$$

SYNOPSIS...BC/DBR
NEAR TERM...BC
SHORT TERM...BC
LONG TERM...DBR
AVIATION...BC
MARINE...BC/JM/DBR
HYDROLOGY...BC/DBR
TIDES/COASTAL FLOODING...
