721 
FXUS61 KOKX 071721
AFDOKX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service New York NY
121 PM EDT Mon Apr 7 2025

.SYNOPSIS...
Waves of low pressure move along a stalled frontal boundary to 
our south through this evening. A secondary cold front will move 
across the area late tonight into early Tuesday followed by high 
pressure building in from the west through Wednesday. The high 
moves offshore Wednesday night. A slow moving frontal system will 
likely affect the region late Thursday into next weekend.

&&

.NEAR TERM /THROUGH TONIGHT/...
While it will not rain very hard today, expect periods of mainly
light rain and patchy fog as multiple waves of low pressure 
pass to the south along with upper jet energy. The highest 
chance will be along coastal locations where another couple of 
tenths of an inch are possible, less amounts north and west. 

Periods of rain will linger into this evening, primarily along
the coast, ending from west to east. Far eastern LI and
southeast CT, the rain could linger to around midnight. Also, a
strong cold front will begin to move into the region late 
tonight/toward Tuesday morning in association of another low 
tracking across upstate New York and New England.

&&

.SHORT TERM /TUESDAY THROUGH WEDNESDAY/...
A strong cold front will move across the region Tuesday morning
with strong cold advection behind the front, and a strong
pressure gradient as low pressure moving off the northern
New England coast deepens, and high pressure builds to the 
west. Low level winds increase to 30 to 40 kt with deep mixing 
allowing for strong and gusty winds especially during Tuesday 
afternoon. Used a blend of the NBM 90th percentile and the 
higher MAV guidance for both the sustained winds and the gusts. 
With the higher guidance, both sustained winds, and gusts remain
under wind advisory criteria. However, with the initial onset 
of the strongest winds there is the potential for a few 
locations along the coast to be near wind advisory criteria for 
a brief period of time. Winds will then subside fairly quickly 
Tuesday evening as the cold advection weakens and high pressure 
builds closer to the area.

A cold airmass will be ushered in with the cold front and
below freezing temperatures are expected across the region, and
will be 10+ degrees below normal. The dry airmass and winds
remaining up Tuesday night will prevent frost formation,
however, a freeze warning is possible for Tuesday night where
the growing season has begun as of April 1st (NYC metro, Nassau
County, Hudson County, eastern Essex and eastern Union 
Counties).

Tranquil weather will remain into Wednesday as the high builds
over the area.

&&

.LONG TERM /WEDNESDAY NIGHT THROUGH SUNDAY/...
Not much has change with regards to the long term forecast.

Brief shortwave ridging into Thu, with modified polar high building 
in and across into Wed Night, will bring potential for sub-freezing 
conditions outside of NYC proper Wed Night. Frost headlines may be 
needed for NYC/NY metro suburbs where growing season has started, 
given lighter winds and anticipated mid/upper-30 lows in these areas 
Wednesday night. However, a second freeze Wed night seems less 
likely. Temps generally 5 to 10 degrees below seasonable for Wed 
Night.

Deep SW flow aloft amplifies Thu as a couple of PAC shortwaves dive 
through the central plains towards the SE US Thu into Fri, setting 
up an anomalous longitudinally deep east coast trough late week into 
the weekend. Models also coming into better agreement with a 
potential 3-4 std below normal 500mb upper low developing over the 
Tennessee River Valley as northern stream shortwave phases in, 
eventually lifting into the NE US through the weekend. At the 
surface a resultant Mid-Mississippi River Valley/Ohio Valley low and 
associated frontal system likely approaches the region late Thu/Thu 
Night, and then likely stalls near the region Fri thru the weekend 
as it becomes aligned with the N/S deepening east coast trough. This 
culminates in developing southern low pressure tracking up the coast 
through the weekend in response to the upper low. 

Models trending into better agreement in the synoptics, but still 
inherent 5-7 day model spread in location/amplitude of trough 
development and timing/location/intensity of closed low development, 
due to the interdependency on the interaction of several shortwaves. 
This of course, will affect the exact location of the resultant 
stalling frontal system, and track of coastal low. 

Overall, confidence is increasing on unsettled conditions Fri into 
next weekend, with potential for a period or periods of heavy rain 
based on synoptic setup and potential sub-tropical moisture 
connection. Given the increased confidence in this occurring, WPC has 
issued a Marginal Risk for Excessive Rainfall on Day 5 (12Z Fri-12Z 
Sat). Its possible, however, the timing of this marginal could 
change to Saturday or be issued for both Fri & Sat, given the 
general consensus of models having the highest PWATs around Fri 
Night. Have increased POPs to likely for Fri night as a result. 
Overall though, predictability on rainfall details is inherently low 
at this timeframe (see hydrology section), with increasing detail as 
the week progresses.

&&

.AVIATION /18Z MONDAY THROUGH SATURDAY/...
Waves of low pressure move along a stationary front south of 
the area through this evening. A secondary cold front moves 
across the terminals late tonight with high pressure gradually 
building in on Tuesday. 

Mainly IFR through early this evening with periods of light
rain. There may be some fluctuations in flight categories at 
times with conditions briefly becoming MVFR, but overall IFR 
should prevail. The light rain should end this evening with 
flight categories remaining IFR until the cold front passage 
late tonight. Confidence is low for the occurrence of lower 
visibilities tonight (MVFR or IFR). Improvement to VFR will 
occur late tonight, prevailing through Tuesday.

NE winds 5-10 kt through this afternoon. Winds will veer to
the N and remain under 10 kt this evening and then shift to the
W-NW late tonight behind the cold front passage. W-NW winds 
quickly increase early Tuesday, becoming 15-25 kt with gusts 
30-35 kt. Peak gusts around 40 kt possible. 

 ...NY Metro (KEWR/KLGA/KJFK/KTEB) TAF Uncertainty...
Fluctuating visibilities and ceilings possible through this 
evening. Low chance for visibilities to fall to IFR. 

Timing of improvement to VFR late tonight may be off by
1 to 3 hours.

Timing of wind shift behind the cold front tonight may
be off by 1-3 hours. 

Peak gusts on Tuesday around 40 kt. 

.OUTLOOK FOR 18Z TUESDAY THROUGH SATURDAY...

Tuesday Afternoon-Night: VFR. NW wind gusts 25-35 kt through 
early evening, diminishing overnight. 

Wednesday: VFR.

Thursday: MVFR possible late with a chance of showers.

Friday: IFR possible with showers likely. E-SE wind gusts
15-20 kt possible.

Saturday: MVFR or lower possible. Chance of showers. E-SE wind
gusts 15-20 kt possible.

Detailed information, including hourly TAF wind component forecasts, 
can be found at: https:/www.weather.gov/zny/n90

&&

.MARINE...
No changes to winds and seas at this time.

A SCA continues on the ocean waters east of Moriches Inlet 
through early this evening as south to southeast swells keep 
seas elevated. Across the waters from Fire Island Inlet to 
Moriches Inlet seas may at times near 5 feet this morning with 
the swells, however, with mainly the eastern portion of the zone
being affected, and the infrequency of higher seas, have not 
issued an advisory for these waters. Ocean seas may build to SCA
levels late tonight into Tuesday morning, however, with 
increasing winds and gusts in the wake of a cold frontal 
passage, reaching to gale force across all the waters by Tuesday
afternoon have continued the gale watch from Tuesday morning 
through early Tuesday evening. Once gale gusts end a period of 
SCA gusts will be possible on the non ocean waters through 
Tuesday evening. On the ocean waters once gales end SCA 
conditions will continue into Wednesday morning.

Winds are waves are expected to remain below SCA criteria 
Wednesday night through Friday night. Waves on ocean zones could
climb 5-6 feet on Saturday.

&&

.HYDROLOGY...
There are no hydrologic concerns through Thursday. 

Low predictability on hydrologic concerns for late week/next 
weekend with potential for a long duration rain event Friday-Sat
Night period. NBM probs are showing a 25-35% prob for 1" in 24 
hrs and 5-10% prob of 2" in 24 hours during the Fri-Sat Night 
period.

&&

.OKX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CT...None.
NY...None.
NJ...None.
MARINE...Gale Watch from Tuesday morning through Tuesday evening for 
     ANZ331-332-335-338-340-345-350-353-355.
     Small Craft Advisory until 8 PM EDT this evening for ANZ350.

&&

$$

SYNOPSIS...BR/MET
NEAR TERM...MET/DW
SHORT TERM...MET
LONG TERM...BR
AVIATION...DS
MARINE...BR/MET
HYDROLOGY...BR/MET
