035 
FXUS61 KOKX 220619
AFDOKX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service New York NY
119 AM EST Sat Feb 22 2025

.SYNOPSIS...
After a weak surface trough passes through tonight, high
pressure will build in this weekend, then pass offshore Sunday
night into Monday. A warm front will pass to the north on 
Monday, followed by a cold front moving through Tuesday night. 
Weak high pressure will then briefly return on Wednesday before 
a frontal system likely affects the region on Thursday.

&&

.NEAR TERM /UNTIL 6 AM THIS MORNING/...
NW winds with a weak sfc trough passage have increased,
otherwise forecast mostly on track as the trough moves through 
and high pressure builds to the south. Under clear skies, 
winds will diminish late as the pressure gradient area weakens,
with low temps around 20 in the city and in the teens 
elsewhere. Wind chills fall to around 10 above in the city, to
the single digits most elsewhere, and just below zero 
well inland.

&&

.SHORT TERM /6 AM THIS MORNING THROUGH 6 PM SUNDAY/...
The flow aloft will be zonal for the most part during the 
period with weakening surface high pressure centered to our 
south. Sunny conditions to start the day Saturday, then it 
appears that some cirrus will be filtering the sun during the 
afternoon. WSW winds will help push high temperatures close to 
40 in the city with middle and upper 30s across the rest of the 
area. 

The cirrus should shift out of here during the overnight hours 
of Saturday. This will probably allow for a few hours of 
favorable radiational cooling conditions. Anticipating low 
temperatures in the low 20s for the northernmost zones and Pine 
Barrens Region, around 30 in the city, and mid to upper 20s 
elsewhere.

&&

.LONG TERM /SUNDAY NIGHT THROUGH FRIDAY/...
Key Points:

* Temperatures likely 5-10 degrees above normal Tuesday through 
  Thursday. A return to more seasonable temps to end the week. 

* Mainly dry conditions are expected through mid week. A frontal
  system will likely affect the region Wed night into Thursday,
  with a more organized low pressure system possible for next 
  weekend.

Quasi-zonal upper flow through early next week with PAC jet
riding the northern tier of the ConUS around expansive polar 
trough across southern Canada. Southern stream appears to remain
split from northern stream until late week, after the northern 
stream upper flow becomes increasingly amplified during the mid 
to late week as a series of deepening shortwaves ride along the 
flow.

Seasonable conditions Sunday into Monday as a weak shortwave and
surface trough move through on Sunday morning with weak 
Canadian high pressure building in Sun night into Mon AM, and 
offshore during the day Monday. 

General agreement with quick succession of shortwaves moving
through south central to southeastern tier of Canada Sunday 
night into Monday night, and then a stronger shortwave digging 
from the northern plains Monday to the eastern US Tuesday night
(although there is a bit of model spread in timing/amplitude of
this shortwave). The result will be a complex frontal system 
with primary low pressure tracking around the base of Hudson's 
Bay, and possible secondary triple point low developing across 
the US/Canadian border that could bring the next chance for 
precipitation locally late Tuesday into Wed AM. This looks to be
a progressive system with limited precip potential. The 
amplified SW flow into the NE US and resulting moderating trend 
Mon into Tuesday support a mainly rain event, with temps rising 
to above seasonable levels. Will have to monitor the low 
probability of a potential interaction of this northern stream 
shortwave with a southern branch shortwave, and possible backing
of developing offshore low closer to the coast bringing a 
wetter scenario (limited support for this from ECMWF and its 
ensembles). 

Thereafter, general model agreement in further longitudinal
amplification of troughing across the Eastern US for late week 
period in response to a more vigorous PAC shortwave diving 
through the Central US into the SE US. Typical model 
timing/amplitude spread exists at this time frame, with 
resultant model spread in track/timing/intensity of a clipper 
type system through the region Thu/Thu night. Pattern suggestive
of another progressive and primarily rain system.
 
In its wake, a subsequent return to more seasonable late Feb/early 
March temps for Friday, and possibly below normal with a more 
organized low pressure system for the weekend.

&&

.AVIATION /06Z SATURDAY THROUGH WEDNESDAY/...
VFR as high pressure builds to the south. Diminishing NW winds 
should become W then SW around 10 kt this afternoon. 

 ...NY Metro (KEWR/KLGA/KJFK/KTEB) TAF Uncertainty...

No unscheduled amendments expected. 

.OUTLOOK FOR 06Z SUNDAY THROUGH WEDNESDAY...

Late Saturday night through Monday night: VFR. 

Tuesday: Chance of showers with MVFR cond possible at KSWF/KHPN, 
otherwise VFR. 

Wednesday: VFR. 

Detailed information, including hourly TAF wind component
forecasts, can be found at: https:/www.weather.gov/zny/n90

&&

.MARINE...
Frequent wind gusts have diminished below 25 kt across the
western Long Island Sound, New York Harbor, and the Long Island
south shore bays, and the SCA was allowed to expire. However,
occasional nearshore gusts may be near 25 kt until around 300 
AM EST. The SCA continues for the remainder of the waters until
600 AM.

Winds increased this evening with passage of a weak sfc trough,
gusting to 35 kt at the Central Sound buoy. Winds should then 
gradually diminish overnight, with gusts falling below 25 kt 
throughout by daybreak. 

Increasing S-SW flow may bring potential for 25-kt gusts and
5-ft seas on the ocean waters Mon night into Tue after a warm
frontal passage and ahead of an approaching cold front.

&&

.HYDROLOGY...
No hydrologic impacts are expected through the end of next week.

&&

.OKX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CT...None.
NY...None.
NJ...None.
MARINE...Small Craft Advisory until 6 AM EST early this morning for 
     ANZ331-332-340-350-353-355.

&&

$$

SYNOPSIS...JC/BG/NV
NEAR TERM...JC/BG/NV
SHORT TERM...JC
LONG TERM...NV
AVIATION...BG/BR
MARINE...JC/BG/MET/NV
HYDROLOGY...JC/NV
