253 
FXUS61 KOKX 180727
AFDOKX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service New York NY
327 AM EDT Sun May 18 2025

.SYNOPSIS...
Low pressure is slow to exit the New England Coast and will send 
several surface troughs through the area through Monday. High 
pressure noses in from the north thereafter through Tuesday
night. A frontal system impacts the area Wednesday into Friday 
night, moving northeast of the region Saturday.

&&

.NEAR TERM /THROUGH TONIGHT/...
The upper level low can be seen well on latest water vapor imagery 
centered to our north and moving over northern NY. At the surface, a 
cold front is now pushing offshore and W/NW flow is filtering in some 
drier air. The upper level low and associated surface low are slow 
to exit the area and will gradually move off the New England Coast 
tonight. The surface low will send a few surface troughs through the 
area through Monday, the first being this afternoon.

Today starts off mostly sunny, but with the help of cyclonic flow 
aloft a decent cloud deck around 4 kft should fill in and lead to 
mostly cloudy skies. There is also potential for some light showers, 
mainly across the Lower Hudson Valley and interior southern CT. If 
anything makes it farther south it will likely only be sprinkles. 
The more notable weather today will be the gusty W/NW flow. There is 
some concern with how well mixed we can get once clouds fill in, but 
confidence was high enough to go above the NBM90th percentile for 
gusts as even shallow mixing up to 950mb could bring down some 35+ 
mph gusts.

Stuck with NBM for highs today, giving upper 60s to mid 70s. Mixed 
in other global guidance and NBM10th percentile for Td as the NBM 
has shown some high bias in drier regimes.

The pressure gradient increases a bit over the area tonight and 
sustained winds may increase slightly, but gusts lower with less 
mixing. Stuck with NBM for lows with the lack of strong radiational 
cooling. Lows will be in the 50s.

&&

.SHORT TERM /MONDAY THROUGH TUESDAY NIGHT/...
A quick approaching shortwave will move overhead on Monday along 
with another surface trough. Not expecting any precipitation from 
these features. Gusty winds do continue though, a few mph lower than 
today.

Winds finally start lowering Monday night with high pressure nosing 
in from the north. Thinking winds will still be a bit too high 
though for ideal radiational cooling conditions.

Light winds expected on Tuesday with at least a mostly sunny sky 
through the early afternoon. Some mid and upper level clouds may 
move in from the northeast in the afternoon thanks to the influence 
of the still-departing upper level low.

Late in the period, Tuesday night, unsettled weather returns with an 
approaching large frontal system. Slight chance PoPs begin after 
midnight for the western third of the area.

&&

.LONG TERM /WEDNESDAY THROUGH SATURDAY/...
Key Message:

 * A frontal system impacts the region Wednesday into Friday night.
   Periods of moderate rainfall are possible Wednesday afternoon
   into Wednesday night.

The forecast remains fairly consistent from previous forecasts with 
the approach of a frontal system Tuesday night that impacts the 
region during Wednesday into at least Friday, and possibly into 
Friday night. An upper level trough deepens across the upper midwest 
and into the Great Lakes region Wednesday into Wednesday night with 
a closed low developing. The upper low will be slow to depart to the 
northeast as pieces of energy rotate through the low. The upper 
trough begins to weaken and move northeast during Saturday. 
Meanwhile, at the surface low pressure moves out of the Great Lakes 
and into the region Wednesday into Wednesday night. The guidance is 
still developing a deepening low along the mid Atlantic coast late 
Wednesday.
This low deepens through Thursday while tracking over or just east 
of the region. This is in response to the upper low energy moving 
toward the coast Wednesday. With an influx of Atlantic moisture and 
strong lift with the upper low and surface low.
periods of moderate to possibly briefly heavy rainfall are becoming 
more likely late Wednesday into Wednesday night.
However, no hydrologic impacts are expected at this time. With the 
upper low slow to depart have kept chances and slight chances of 
precipitation in the area into Saturday. With extensive cloud cover 
and rainfall, daytime temperatures will be 5 to near 10 degrees 
below normal Wednesday through Friday, and night time lows will be 
near to around 5 degrees below normal.

&&

.AVIATION /07Z SUNDAY THROUGH THURSDAY/...
Low pressure continues to tracks slowly east through Northern New 
England into the Canadian Maritimes today through tonight.

VFR. A few area of MVFR cigs possible today for northern terminals. 
Isolated SHRA can't be ruled out, but shouldn't be impactful and is 
not included in TAFs at this time.

Winds W/NW, with gusts from time to time overnight before becoming 
more frequent towards 12-13Z. Gusts lock in during the day with 
upwards of 30kt gusts possible, especially for this afternoon into 
the evening.

 ...NY Metro (KEWR/KLGA/KJFK/KTEB) TAF Uncertainty...

Low chance of brief MVFR ceilings Sunday.

.OUTLOOK FOR 06Z MONDAY THROUGH THURSDAY...

Late tonight: VFR. W winds G20-25kt.

Monday - Tuesday: VFR. Monday NW winds G20-25kt into the evening.

Wednesday: MVFR or lower with showers likely, especially in the 
afternoon and into the night. E wind gusts 15-20kt.

Thursday: MVFR or lower possible in showers. NE winds G20-30kt, 
highest across southeastern Connecticut and eastern Long Island.

Detailed information, including hourly TAF wind component forecasts, 
can be found at: https:/www.weather.gov/zny/n90

&&

.MARINE...
Small Craft Advisory conditions will start this morning with 25 to 
30 kt gusts. Nearshore gusts could even be a few kt higher. 
There will likely be a bit of a lull overnight before 25 kt 
gusts are expected again on Monday. Thereafter, sub-SCA 
conditions expected through Tuesday night. Seas on the ocean may
build to around 5 ft today into tonight.

With the approach of a frontal system during Wednesday, an easterly 
flow will be increasing, and by late day SCA conditions are likely 
to develop on the ocean waters. With the increased and persistent 
east flow Wednesday night SCA conditions become likely across all 
the forecast waters Wednesday night and continue into Thursday. A 
brief period of near gale force gusts are possible on the ocean 
waters east of Moriches Inlet Thursday.

As the low tracks northeast of the area Thursday night a northerly 
flow develops and winds diminish west to east, falling below 
advisory levels Thursday night. However, ocean seas are likely to 
remain elevated through Friday, and possible into Friday
evening.

&&

.HYDROLOGY...
There are no hydrologic concerns through the week.

&&

.OKX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CT...None.
NY...None.
NJ...None.
MARINE...Small Craft Advisory from 6 AM this morning to 6 PM EDT Monday 
     for ANZ331-332-335-338-340-345-350-353-355.

&&

$$

SYNOPSIS...MET/JT
NEAR TERM...JT
SHORT TERM...JT
LONG TERM...MET
AVIATION...MET
MARINE...MET/JT
HYDROLOGY...MET/JT
