913 
FXUS61 KOKX 181823
AFDOKX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service New York NY
223 PM EDT Wed Jun 18 2025

.SYNOPSIS...
A warm front struggle north of the region through this evening.
Low pressure developing along a cold front over the central 
United States today will track northeast into northern New 
England by Thursday night, sending a cold front across the 
region Thursday night. High pressure builds in thereafter and 
generally remains in control through early next week. A few 
disturbances may move through during this period.

&&

.NEAR TERM /UNTIL 6 PM THIS EVENING/...
A warm front struggles north of the region today into this
evening. Diurnal heating should allow for fog to gradually 
improve this morning into early afternoon along the coastal 
plain. Stratus/dense fog bank across the ocean east of the 
central and southern NJ may work back along immediate southern 
and eastern coastal areas late this afternoon into evening. 
Plenty of stratus today, which will limit mixing and heating, 
keeping mainly in the 70s, except lower 80s west of Hudson.

Areas west of the Hudson River, away from marine influence,  
will see marginal surface based instability develop this
afternoon with potential for a few breaks of sun. Combined with
weak upper energy approaching from the SW this aft/eve and 
marginal deep layer shear, isolated to scattered thunderstorms 
development is possible btwn 3 and 10pm. The organized severe 
thunderstorm threat is very marginal (less than 5% prob for 
LoHud and NE NJ). Any showers and thunderstorms that develop 
have the potential of producing heavy rainfall, as the storm 
will be relatively slow moving (east at 20-25 mph) there is
potential for local nuisance and urban flooding, mainly across 
northeastern New Jersey, the lower Hudson Valley, and into New 
York City. Isolated to widely scattered storm coverage should 
limit flash flood threat to very marginal (less than 5% prob for
NYC and points N&W). Thunderstorm potential and intensity 
decreases working eastward late this aft/eve through NYC/SW CT 
into LI/E CT with greater maritime influence, but still 
potential for isolated elevated thunder this evening.

&&

.SHORT TERM /6 PM THIS EVENING THROUGH FRIDAY/...
Once the upper disturbance moves through the region this
evening, dry weather is expected into Thursday morning. With the
area in a warm and humid airmass air temperatures are expected
to range in the mid 80s along the coast to the lower 90s inland,
and with dew points rising into the upper 60s and lower 70s heat
indices will peak in the mid 90s to near 100. The area will
become increasing unstable during the afternoon into the
evening, and with the approach of a cold front and shortwave
showers and thunderstorms become likely. Some of the
thunderstorms could become severe with damaging wind gusts the
primary threat, small hail is also possible, and an isolated
tornado and/or waterspout cannot be ruled out. The Storm 
Prediction Center has placed much of the area in a slight risk,
with the remainder in the marginal risk for severe weather. 
While heavy rainfall is also possible the storms will be moving 
fairly quickly, and training is not expected. With the passage 
of the cold front Thursday night the showers and thunderstorms 
will end. High pressure then builds toward the region for 
Friday, with slightly cooler temperatures.

&&

.LONG TERM /FRIDAY NIGHT THROUGH WEDNESDAY/...
Bit of a pattern change as we head into this weekend and early 
next week. Heights aloft start rising Friday night as a broad 
upper level ridge builds in over the eastern half of the 
country. At the surface, high pressure generally dominates. This
pattern will lead to hot and humid conditions, with potential 
for heat headlines.

Highest confidence in high heat is Monday and Tuesday once the 
upper level ridge establishes itself more. Away from the coast 
expecting mid to upper 90s each day with upper 60s/lower 70s 
dewpoints resulting in max heat indices 100-105. While Sunday 
will still be hot, there is some uncertainty given some guidance
now hinting at energy rounding the base of the ridge and 
bringing clouds and showers. This will have a big impact on 
temperatures and will have to monitor this trend. For now stuck 
with NBM for PoPs for this which has only slight chance late 
Saturday night into Sunday morning.

&&

.AVIATION /18Z WEDNESDAY THROUGH MONDAY/...
Warm front will weaken as it moves through the region this
afternoon into evening.

For NYC terminals, KHPN, and KSWF, forecast has MVFR to VFR into
early evening, until around 00-01Z Thursday. However, within 
this timeframe is when showers redevelop and move in along with 
some embedded thunderstorms. Thunderstorms have timing of 21Z
Wednesday to 01Z Thursday. These could temporarily lower 
conditions back down to MVFR to IFR for a short time. MVFR to 
LIFR clouds and fog redevelop tonight and last into Thursday 
morning. VFR forecast to return by late Thursday morning and 
into Thursday afternoon.

For KBDR, KISP and KGON, initial conditions vary from VFR to
LIFR. For these terminals, showers are still forecast mainly in
that 21Z to 03Z time window, but thunderstorms are a lower 
chance. Left PROB30s for thunder for KISP and KGON (00-03Z
Thursday) and left out of KGON. For tonight, fog and low 
stratus are likely with LIFR forecast into Thursday morning.
Some improvement is expected late Thursday morning into
afternoon to MVFR but not for KGON which remains LIFR to
potentially IFR.

Winds will be generally southerly at or less than 10 kt through
much of the TAF period. Winds become more SW 10-15 kt for
Thursday afternoon. Some terminals will have more variable wind
direction during times when wind speeds are at or less than 5 
kts.

 ...NY Metro (KEWR/KLGA/KJFK/KTEB) TAF Uncertainty...

KLGA Sound breeze with NE winds near 5-7 kts possible at times
before 22Z this evening.

Amendments likely. Categories may vary between MVFR and LIFR at
times tonight into Thursday morning.

Shower and thunderstorm timing could vary by 1-2 hours compared
to TAF.

.OUTLOOK FOR 18Z THURSDAY THROUGH MONDAY... 

Thursday: Lower clouds and fog scatter out with VFR by early
afternoon for most terminals. KGON may take until late afternoon.
Showers/tstms with MVFR to IFR then possible in the late 
afternoon/early evening, some with locally strong winds from the
NYC metros north/west. Otherwise winds are SW near 10-15 kt with
gusts near 20 kt afternoon into evening before diminishing late
at night.

Friday through Monday: Mainly VFR. 

Detailed information, including hourly TAF wind component
forecasts, can be found at: https:/www.weather.gov/zny/n90

&&

.MARINE...
Widespread dense fog across all but NY harbor. SOme improvement
likely late this morning into afternoon, before likely return
late this afternoon/eve for ocean waters, and likely southern
and eastern bays of LI and central and eastern LI Sound.

Winds and seas remain below advisory levels today into Thursday
afternoon, then with an increasing southwest flow ahead of a
cold front Thursday gusts may be near 25 kt on the ocean waters,
and possibly into the south shore bays, late in the day and
Thursday evening. In addition, ocean seas build to 5 feet.
Behind the cold front gusts will fall below 25 kt, however ocean
seas will remain elevated through Thursday night, and possibly
into early Friday morning.

Winds and waves are expected to stay below Small Craft Advisory 
criteria this weekend through early next week.

&&

.HYDROLOGY...
One quarter to three quarters of an inch rain, with locally 
higher amounts, is possible across the lower Hudson Valley, 
northeastern New Jersey, and New York City into this evening, 
and local nuisance and urban flooding will be possible. The
probability for flash flooding is very marginal. 

Locally heavy downpours are possible with any showers and 
thunderstorms Thursday afternoon into the evening. However, the 
risk of flooding will be mitigated by the speed of any cells and
lack of overall cell training.

There are no hydrologic concerns this weekend through early next 
week.

&&

.TIDES/COASTAL FLOODING...
The risk for the development of rip currents at the ocean
beaches is moderate today and Thursday. Increasing SW flow late
Thursday afternoon may result in an elevated risk for rip 
currents later in the day.

&&

.OKX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CT...None.
NY...None.
NJ...None.
MARINE...Dense Fog Advisory from 6 PM this evening to 8 AM EDT Thursday 
     for ANZ331-332-335-340-345.
     Dense Fog Advisory until 8 AM EDT Thursday for ANZ350-353.
     Dense Fog Advisory until 2 PM EDT this afternoon for ANZ355.

&&

$$

SYNOPSIS...MET/JT
NEAR TERM...MET/NV
SHORT TERM...MET
LONG TERM...JT
AVIATION...JM
MARINE...MET/JT
HYDROLOGY...MET/JT
TIDES/COASTAL FLOODING...
