436 
FXUS61 KOKX 150953
AFDOKX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service New York NY
553 AM EDT Tue Apr 15 2025

.SYNOPSIS...
A cold front moves through the area this morning. A series of weak 
surface troughs move through this afternoon through Wednesday. High 
pressure starts to gradually build in Wednesday night, remaining in 
control through Thursday night. A frontal system approaches 
Friday and may impact the area from Friday night through 
Saturday night. High pressure returns for Sunday. Another 
frontal system may impact the area late Monday.

&&

.NEAR TERM /UNTIL 6 PM THIS EVENING/...
Showers are just about leaving the area that were associated 
with the frontal system moving through. The triple point is 
progged to pass just to our north as a cold front pushes through
the area early this morning. There will likely be a brief dry 
period this morning once this activity exits. Some guidance is 
then hinting at showers blossoming once again along the front 
and scraping by southeastern portions of the area. Confidence in
this is low as the front will likely be far enough east. 
Thereafter however, a strong shortwave approaches. Cooling 
aloft will steepen lapse rates and allow instability to 
increase. CAMs continue to show isolated to scattered activity 
in model reflectivity fields. When these showers first move into
the area it looks like they will likely not be able to produce 
any thunder because a mid- level cap is evident in model 
soundings around 600mb. This cap is just below the -10C to - 20C
layer. Once this cap weakens by 20z or so, then about 100 to 
200 J/kg of CAPE will be available in the -10C to -20C layer and
isolated thunder will be possible. With a dry sub-cloud layer 
and strong mid-level flow, any stronger showers or thunderstorms
should be able to mix down 40+ kt gusts. Small hail or graupel 
is also possible.

Outside of any showers or thunderstorms, the synoptic winds 
themselves will be very gusty. Deep mixing is seen in model 
soundings in strong CAA. The deepest mixing occurs in the western 
half of the area before sunset and expecting the highest wind gusts 
here. Mainly 35 to 40 mph with an occasional 45 mph gust possible.

Highs reach the 60s today, likely a bit earlier than climo for 
western locations, maybe closer to 2 PM.

&&

.SHORT TERM /6 PM THIS EVENING THROUGH THURSDAY NIGHT/...
Cyclonic flow aloft continues through Wednesday. At the surface a 
series of weak troughs will move through. No precipitation is 
expected from these features. Gusty winds expected again
Wednesday, but closer to 30 to 35 mph. Heights start rising 
aloft Wednesday night with ridging aloft and high pressure 
moving in at the surface. Light winds and clear skies expected 
by Thursday night, so went straight CONSMOS guidance for now.

&&

.LONG TERM /FRIDAY THROUGH MONDAY/...
A weakening ridge in the upper levels will push east of the area 
Friday, while at the surface high pressure will be situated to the 
south off the mid-Atlantic coast with a surface ridge axis extending 
from it northward into southern Quebec. This will allow a 
warm front to lift north Friday night and will be be the next 
chance for precipitation. However, only light amounts of rain for 
Friday night are expected at this time. The associated cold front is 
expected to move through on Saturday night, with a secondary cold 
front possibly moving through late Saturday night into early Sunday 
morning. High pressure builds in behind the cold fronts for 
the rest of Sunday.

With a building ridge moving into the region Thursday and a warm 
front lifting north Friday night, a warming trend through the period 
is expected. Temperatures in the 50s and 60s on Thursday will rise 
into the 60s and 70s by Saturday for most areas. Cooler conditions 
are expected along coastal areas. Cold air advection after the 
passage of the cold front will temperatures back to near seasonable 
levels for Sunday and Monday.

&&

.AVIATION /10Z TUESDAY THROUGH SATURDAY/...
A frontal system will impact the area today. High pressure builds 
in tonight.

VFR conditions through daybreak today. However, 
an approaching warm front is expected to bring brief MVFR 
conditions for southern and eastern terminals (KJFK, KISP, KBDR,
and KGON) between 11Z and 14Z, though there is some uncertainty
in timing and location, with a moderate chance of MVFR
conditions for KLGA, KEWR, KTEB, and KHPN. After 14Z, VFR 
conditions expected for all terminals except for KGON where VFR
conditions do not look to return until mid afternoon, 16Z.

Showers are currently moving through eastern terminals as of 08Z and
will continue through 11Z (possibly ending earlier).
Thereafter, showers associated with cold frontal passage may
affect all terminals from 17Z-23Z, with brief MVFR or lower 
possible. Instability is weak and a thunderstorm seems 
unlikely, however a passing thunderstorms cannot be ruled out. Any 
showers could produce wind gusts up to 40 kt. 

Winds for a time overnight may go light and variable, 
especially across the NYC terminals and KISP as the warm front 
will be in close proximity. WSW winds gradually ramp up this 
morning to 10-15kt with 20 kt gusts, then 20-25 kt. Winds shift 
more to the W this afternoon with sustained winds increasing to 20 
to 25 kt and gusts 30-35kt in the afternoon following a cold frontal 
passage. 

 ...NY Metro (KEWR/KLGA/KJFK/KTEB) TAF Uncertainty... 

There is a moderate chance of MVFR conditions at KLGA, KEWR and
KTEB, mainly from 11Z-13Z, but confidence was not high enough to
put in TAFS. Onset of higher winds and gusts early Tuesday 
morning may be an hour or two earlier. And a few gusts during 
the afternoon may approach 40kt in gusty showers.


.OUTLOOK FOR 06Z WEDNESDAY THROUGH SATURDAY...

Tuesday night: VFR. W winds G25-30kt.

Wednesday: VFR. WNW winds G25-30kt. 

Thursday: VFR. NW winds G20-25kt.

Friday: VFR. Chance of showers at night. S winds G15-20kt.

Saturday: Chance of MVFR in showers. SW winds G15-20kt. 

Detailed information, including hourly TAF wind component forecasts, 
can be found at: https:/www.weather.gov/zny/n90

&&

.MARINE...
Winds ramp up today late morning into the early afternoon. The Small 
Craft Advisory now goes into effect everywhere at 12 PM. Tricky wind 
forecast as there will be an inversion in place over the waters 
today through much of the day. Meanwhile, gusts on land could reach 
just below 40 kt around western Long Island, NYC, northeast NJ
and souther Westchester. Have decided to hold off on a Gale 
Warning, but gusts right along the coast will at least 
occasionally reach 35 to 40 kt. The inversion will weaken 
through the day and stronger gusts will be able to mix down over
the open waters by tonight. There looks to be a few hour period
where gales are expected. Have also held off on Gale Warning 
issuance for tonight given the brief period. A short fused Gale 
Warning may be needed, or potentially an Marine Weather 
Statement.

Gusts gradually lower on Wednesday. By Wednesday night most waters 
will be below SCA criteria, with the eastern ocean zone likely 
lingering due to 5ft waves. Sub-SCA conditions continue through 
Thursday night.

Waves are expected to remain below SCA criteria through the 
first half of Friday night but build to 4 to 6 ft late Friday to 
around daybreak Saturday on the ocean. Waves continue to build to 
4 to 8 ft by Saturday afternoon on a southerly flow ahead 
of an approaching cold front. Waves slowly diminish thereafter 
through Sunday, with all ocean zones below 5 ft by late Sunday 
morning into Sunday afternoon.

Winds will remain below 25 kt through Friday, are expected to gust  
25 to 30 kt kt by late Friday night into Saturday on the ocean 
waters as a frontal system approaches from the west. Winds on the 
ocean fall below 25 kt for Saturday night into Sunday. There is a 
chance that non-ocean waters reach SCA gusts on Saturday.

&&

.HYDROLOGY...
There are no hydrologic concerns through the start of next week.

&&

.OKX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CT...None.
NY...None.
NJ...None.
MARINE...Small Craft Advisory from noon today to 6 PM EDT Wednesday for 
     ANZ331-332-335-338-340-345-350-353-355.

&&

$$

SYNOPSIS...JP/JT
NEAR TERM...JT
SHORT TERM...JT
LONG TERM...JP
AVIATION...JP
MARINE...JP/JT
HYDROLOGY...JP/JT
