668 
FXUS61 KOKX 011738
AFDOKX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service New York NY
1238 PM EST Sat Feb 1 2025

.SYNOPSIS...
Low pressure moves well out into the Northern Atlantic and
deepens today. High pressure will build in today into tonight
from the Great Lakes. This high pressure area will move offshore
Sunday into Sunday night, eventually getting to southeast of the
Canadian Maritimes. Low pressure approaches Sunday into Sunday
night from Southeast Canada with its associated warm front
moving across Sunday night. The warm front shifts north of the
area Monday with an associated cold front moving across Monday
night. High pressure will build from the northwest on Tuesday, 
then move east on Wednesday as a complex frontal system 
approaches from the southwest from later Wednesday into 
Thursday. High pressure should return on Friday.

&&

.NEAR TERM /UNTIL 6 PM THIS EVENING/...
Forecast is on track. Northerly flow starting to become gusty 
behind a departing wave of low pressure. Temperatures have not 
changed too much but do expect some lowering going into this 
morning and then another decrease of temperatures this 
afternoon.

High pressure from the Great Lakes will be building in through 
the day. The relatively tight pressure gradient between this
high pressure area and an area deepening low pressure out in the
Northern Atlantic will create a gusty NW flow, advecting in
colder air throughout the day. 

Expecting actually colder temperatures this afternoon compared
to this morning. Used a colder blend of guidance for high
temperatures which will be set in the morning and range mainly
in the low to upper 30s. Low 30s for the interior and upper 30s
along the coast and within NYC.

Some mid level ridging will allow for more subsidence and drying
atmospheric column will make for a sunnier day. But with cold
air advection, actual temperatures will be colder than the
previous day and apparent temperatures will certainly feel much
colder than the previous day. The highest the forecast wind 
chills reach today is the upper teens to upper 20s.

&&

.SHORT TERM /6 PM THIS EVENING THROUGH MONDAY NIGHT/...
Expecting potentially 2 precipitation events during the short
term. Temperatures colder for tonight and Sunday, then quickly
rebound and moderate Sunday night through Monday night. 
Temperatures average below normal tonight and Sunday, then above
normal Sunday night, Monday, and Monday night.

The mid level ridging continues tonight into early Sunday. A
less amplified mid level shortwave moves across Sunday night.
Nearly zonal flow follows in the mid levels Monday through
Monday night. A strong shortwave approaches by early Tuesday but
has much of its energy well north of the region.

At 850mb, relatively colder air around -10 to -12 degrees C
first half of tonight, increases overnight into Sunday. The
increasing trend continues Sunday night into Monday with
increasing SW to W winds, increasing the low level warm air
advection. The temperatures decrease again Monday night.

At the surface, high pressure continues building in tonight,
with its center going to right north of the local area by early
Sunday. Then, this high pressure area will eventually shift to
more east of the region, getting out into the Gulf of Maine 
late Sunday and southeast of the Canadian Maritimes Sunday 
night.

Meanwhile a complex low pressure area and associated frontal
system will be approaching the region for Sunday night into
Monday night. Associated warm front moves across Sunday night
and associated cold front moves across Monday night. 

Higher POPs and more precipitation are forecast with the warm
front and much less with the cold front. The first precipitation
event of this forecast for Sunday night could produce up to near
1 to 1.5 inches of snow for the interior with little to no snow
(less than 0.3 inches of snow) along the coast.

Regarding temperatures, tonight with anticipated optimal
radiational cooling conditions, used the relatively cooler MET
guidance for lows tonight. This conveys a more vast range and is
colder than the MAV guidance. Used a combination of MAV, MET,
and NBM for high temperatures Sunday, more of NBM and raw model
temperature blend Sunday night and then multiple blends of model
data for temperatures Monday and Monday night.

&&

.LONG TERM /TUESDAY THROUGH FRIDAY/...
Fairly good model consensus continues on a fast zonal flow aloft 
over the CONUS, with an embedded shortwave trough bringing sensible 
wx during mid to late week. After a cold frontal passage early Tue 
AM, strong high pressure will build down from the NW for later Tue 
into Wed, with colder air arriving by Tue night after a relatively 
mild but brisk day with highs in the 40s. 

Given the fast flow aloft have brought in precip chances well ahead 
of deterministic model fcst, with chance of light snow Wed mainly in 
the afternoon, and categorical PoP for Wed night/Thu AM. As the high 
retreats and warmer air moves in especially aloft, partial 
thicknesses suggest we should see a transition to a wintry mix, 
becoming all rain for NYC metro/Long Island late Wed night and 
throughout by daytime Thu, with temps on Thu rising to the upper 
40s/lower 50s. Precip chances wane Thu night, with fair wx and temps 
closer to the seasonal avg for Fri.

&&

.AVIATION /18Z SATURDAY THROUGH THURSDAY/...
High pressure builds from the northwest remaining in control
through Sunday morning. Low pressure approaches the area Sunday
into Sunday night.

VFR through at least Sunday morning. NNW winds remain at 15-20 
kt with gusts 20-30 kt. Winds gradually diminish, especially 
after 22Z-24Z and then veer NE 5-10 kt after midnight. By Sunday
morning, winds become E then SE, remaining at 5-10kt.

Uncertainty in when MVFR cigs move in on Sunday and could be as
early as 18z. Any precipitation holds off until after the TAF 
period, except at KSWF where a PROB30 was introduced at 22z 
Sunday.

 ...NY Metro (KEWR/KLGA/KJFK/KTEB) TAF Uncertainty...

Winds gradually diminish now, but likely continue to see gusts
20-30kt through the afternoon. As we get later in the afternoon,
gusts may become more occasional.

Uncertainty in timing of MVFR cigs on Sunday. Current thinking
is after 20z, but could be as early as 18z.


.OUTLOOK FOR 18Z SUNDAY THROUGH THURSDAY... 

Sunday: Chance of MVFR cigs.

Sunday night: Chance of MVFR or lower cond at night in rain 
and/or snow.

Monday: Mainly VFR.

Tuesday: VFR. NW winds G20kt late morning/afternoon. 

Wednesday: Chance of light snow with MVFR or lower cond mainly in 
the afternoon. 

Wednesday night and Thursday: MVFR or lower cond likely. Precip
type snow initially, changing to a wintry mix in the evening, 
then to rain at the NYC metro/Long Island terminals late through
Thursday. 

Detailed information, including hourly TAF wind component forecasts, 
can be found at: https:/www.weather.gov/zny/n90

&&

.MARINE...
With the relatively tight pressure gradient between approaching
high pressure from the north and west and deepening low pressure
well to the north and east, a gusty NW flow will reach SCA
levels for all waters throughout today. SCA already in effect
for all forecast water through today.

The SCA continues into tonight with continued gusty NW winds.
Non-ocean SCA remains until 8 PM to account for frequent early 
evening gusts near 25 kt anticipated. Then, non-ocean waters go 
below SCA thresholds after 8PM while the ocean waters remain 
with SCA. Western ocean zone SCA goes until 1 AM while the the 
eastern ocean zones continue for the entire overnight.

A relatively weak pressure gradient will keep conditions below
SCA on all waters Sunday through Monday night.

NW winds on Tue could gust close to 25 kt on the ern ocean waters 
daytime Tue, otherwise sub SCA cond expected Tue-Wed.

&&

.HYDROLOGY...
There are no hydrologic concerns at this time.

&&

.OKX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CT...None.
NY...None.
NJ...None.
MARINE...Small Craft Advisory until 8 PM EST this evening for ANZ331-
     332-335-338-340-345.
     Small Craft Advisory until 6 AM EST Sunday for ANZ350-353.
     Small Craft Advisory until 1 AM EST Sunday for ANZ355.

&&

$$

SYNOPSIS...BG/JM
NEAR TERM...JMC/JM
SHORT TERM...JM
LONG TERM...BG
AVIATION...JT
MARINE...BG/JM
HYDROLOGY...BG/JM
