810 
FXUS61 KOKX 021804
AFDOKX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service New York NY
204 PM EDT Wed Jul 2 2025

.SYNOPSIS...
A cold front slowly advances into the area today, and washes 
out tonight. Another cold front passes Thursday afternoon into 
early Thursday evening. High pressure builds in behind the front
Thursday night. High pressure remains on Independence Day into 
the beginning of the weekend. The high moves offshore late 
Sunday followed by a pre- frontal trough and weak low pressure 
southwest of the area Monday into Tuesday.

&&

.NEAR TERM /THROUGH TONIGHT/...
A weak shortwave trough slowly slides east through the area 
today. At the surface, a weak trough gradually pushes SE of the
region through the afternoon, sliding shower activity across 
southern and eastern areas east through the late morning/early 
afternoon. Before then, a few heavier showers or even a rumble 
of thunder is possible across SE LI before this activity slides
SE.

Across northern and western areas gradual drying conditions 
this morning, although mid- high clouds will be slow to clear 
from NW to SE this afternoon. Deep SW flow may still linger mid-high
clouds over far eastern areas into tonight. Mostly clear skies 
are expected for the rest of the area tonight. 

Highs near seasonable in the lower to mid 80s with lows tonight
in the low 70s to mid 60s.

&&

.SHORT TERM /THURSDAY THROUGH FRIDAY NIGHT/...
On Thursday, a long wave upper-level trough over Ontario and
Quebec amplifies as it rotates east into Quebec with surface 
low pressure developing over eastern Quebec and the Canadian 
Maritimes. This brings another cold front through the area 
Thursday afternoon into early evening. 

While much of the morning will be mostly sunny, partly to mostly 
cloudy skies are expected in the afternoon as the cold front 
brings with it a period of showers and thunderstorms. 00Z CAM's
are wishy washy on the amount of CAPE. However, they are 
consistent on only marginal mid-level lapse rates with good 0-6 
km bulk shear. With marginal mid-level lapse rates (most 00Z 
CAM's range from 6.5- 7.1C/km) it may be difficult for some 
thunderstorm development, but given enough CAPE, thunderstorm 
chances look decent. With ample shear available (most 00Z CAM's
have at least 30 kt, with some pushing 60 kt) any thunderstorms
that do occur could become strong to severe with an isolated 
risk for damaging winds. 

Given more heating, temps will be warmer on Thursday, reaching 
the mid 80s to lower 90s. Lows Thursday night will cool to near
70 to the mid 50s at the coast, while interior areas will cool 
into the low 60s. 

Our Independence Day forecast couldn't look better. High
pressure settles Thursday night following a cold front and 
remains in place through Independence Day. Sunny skies are 
expected with highs in the low to mid 80s. Clear skies remain 
into Friday night allowing for good viewing of firework 
displays.

&&

.LONG TERM /SATURDAY THROUGH TUESDAY/...
Key Points:

* Dry and warm this weekend
* Becoming more humid to begin next week

Seasonably warm and dry to begin the weekend with a nice stretch of 
weather. Towards late in the day Sunday and into Sunday night with 
high pressure getting further offshore a more humid return flow gets 
established. This will usher in higher dew points as it turns more 
uncomfortable with high humidity levels for the early and middle 
part of next week.

Global NWP guidance is in excellent agreement with a trough of low 
pressure drawing closer later on Monday which will precede a cold 
front well back to the west. The progression of the cold front may 
slow leading to the trough lingering and potentially being a trigger 
for diurnally driven convection in a very humid air mass. It remains 
too soon to get into details, but scattered showers and 
thunderstorms may develop for the afternoon and evening hours for 
Monday, Tuesday, and possibly Wednesday of next week. The relatively 
higher chance of diurnally driven convection would be further NW 
across the area.

No significant changes were made to the extended forecast with NBM 
guidance utilized.

&&

.AVIATION /18Z WEDNESDAY THROUGH MONDAY/...
A cold front over the area this afternoon will wash out tonight.
Another cold front will approach Thursday afternoon. 

Possible MVFR cigs right at the start of the period at the NYC
metros, then potential for a stray shower or tstm until around
01Z as the front interacts with a developing sea breeze. 

For tonight, most terminals should be VFR, but LIFR cigs are
likely overnight at KGON and may also impact KISP/KJFK. 

Winds at most of the NYC metros will be light/variable to start,
then become light SW-S, while KJFK continues with a S flow
around 10 kt. Other coastal terminals will see SW sea breezes 10
kt or less. A light SSE sea breeze should make it in to 
KEWR/KTEB after 22Z. Light SW winds tonight become W-NW
overnight, then resume at SW 5-10 kt after 14Z-15Z Thu. 

 ...NY Metro (KEWR/KLGA/KJFK/KTEB) TAF Uncertainty...

A stray shower or tstm possible until around 00Z-01Z. Low cigs
may make it to KJFK late tonight. 

.OUTLOOK FOR 18Z THURSDAY THROUGH SUNDAY... 

Late Thursday afternoon and Thursday night: Showers and 
thunderstorms with gusty winds and brief MVFR or lower cond 
possible into early evening, otherwise VFR. SW winds G15-20kt
outside of tstms. 

Friday: VFR. NW winds G15-18kt. 

Saturday through Monday: VFR. 

Detailed information, including hourly TAF wind component
forecasts, can be found at: https:/www.weather.gov/zny/n90

&&

.MARINE...
Sub-SCA conditions are expected on all waters through Friday
night under a weak pressure gradient. 

Tstms may pose a hazard of gusty winds, lightning, heavy rain, 
and locally rough seas Thu aft/eve.

A light pressure gradient continues over the waters to begin the 
weekend with tranquil conditions. By Sunday a return wind flow 
out of the south takes hold with ocean seas around 3 ft. Other 
than somewhat marginal small craft seas on the eastern ocean 
possible Sunday night, sub advisory conditions are expected to 
prevail through the weekend and into the start of next week.

&&

.HYDROLOGY...
A low pressure trough stalls nearby late Monday into Tuesday.
With a humid air mass in place and PW expected to be high
climatologically, isolated to scattered showers and storms 
could produce localized heavy rainfall. Impacts remain unknown 
at this time with details unknown this far out.

&&

.TIDES/COASTAL FLOODING...
A high risk of rip currents continues today due to a southerly 
swell of 4-5 ft 7s, combined with 1 ft easterly swell. This 
will produce waves in the surf zone of 3-5 ft. 

The residual S swell will subside to around 3 ft heading into 
Thursday with the rip risk expected to lower to moderate.

&&

.OKX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CT...None.
NY...High Risk for Rip Currents until 9 PM EDT this evening for NYZ075-
     080-081-178-179.
NJ...None.
MARINE...None.

&&

$$

SYNOPSIS...NV/DW
NEAR TERM...NV
SHORT TERM...NV
LONG TERM...DW
AVIATION...BG
MARINE...NV/DW
HYDROLOGY...NV/DW
TIDES/COASTAL FLOODING...
