410 
FXUS61 KOKX 131816
AFDOKX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service New York NY
216 PM EDT Sun Apr 13 2025

.SYNOPSIS...
Low pressure east of New England will track slowly east and away
from the area, while weak high pressure builds in from the west.
A weak ridge of high pressure builds into the area on Monday 
followed by another frontal system poised to impact the area 
Monday night and into Tuesday. A cold front will move through 
Tuesday night. High pressure passes to the south Wednesday and 
Thursday. Another frontal system approaches the region Friday and 
affects the area going into Saturday.

&&

.NEAR TERM /UNTIL 6 PM THIS EVENING/...
Mainly dry conditions expected for the rest of the day. Can not
rule out a light spotty shower out across the far eastern 
sections of the CWA. 

A large upper level trough just east of the area along with
surface low pressure east of New England will continue to slowly 
work away from the area today. 

As the drier air filters in, some breaks in the clouds are 
expected. High temperatures should rebound into the middle 50s 
for the western CWA with the eastern CWA climbing into the upper
40s to near 50.

&&

.SHORT TERM /6 PM THIS EVENING THROUGH TUESDAY/...
By tonight, the surface low is positioned well northeast of the area 
with drier NW flow persisting overnight. An upper level ridge then 
builds into the area overnight and into the day Monday. This will be 
accompanied by a surface high pressure that will keep the day dry 
and skies mostly clear on Monday. Highs will be in the 60s for much 
of the area.

By Monday night, another large upper level trough approaches from 
the west. The associated surface low pressure deepening over the 
Great Lakes region will push a cold front into the area overnight. 
This front may bring another round of rain showers, possibly with 
convective elements as there may be some elevated instability from 
the daytime heating combining with cooling temperatures aloft. As 
such, have opted to include a slight chance of thunder in the 
forecast, though it should be fairly isolated compared to the shower 
activity.

Some additional shower activity may be possible going into the day 
on Tuesday as a secondary cold front associated with the bulk of the 
mid-level energy approaches and eventually passes overhead by 
evening. High temperatures on Tuesday will be in the low to middle 
60s.

&&

.LONG TERM /TUESDAY NIGHT THROUGH SATURDAY/...
Tranquil conditions expected for much of the long term with low 
pressure heading into the Canadian Maritimes Tuesday night and a 
cold front pushing offshore. Dry slot looks to cut off precipitation 
for our area for Tuesday night. Meanwhile, an upper level trough 
moves through the Northeast into early Wednesday morning. The upper 
trough slowly moves east while a building ridge over the mid-West 
and Great Lakes region moves toward the area into Thursday. At the 
surface, high pressure slowly builds into the area from Tuesday 
night into Wednesday morning, with center of the high south of the 
area by late Thursday into Thursday night. As the high pushes off 
the Mid-Atlantic Coast Thursday night it allows for a frontal system 
to approach from the west, with a warm front possibly moving through 
Friday night, which would be the next chance for precipitation. 
However, there is a great deal of uncertainty this far out, with the 
GFS being uncharacteristically slow with the onset of any 
precipitation, allowing the upper ridge to build over the area 
through Friday night. 

Cold air advection behind the cold front will drop temperatures to 
slightly below normal for this time of year on Wednesday, but then 
temperatures are expected to warm through Saturday with the approach 
of the building upper level ridge.

&&

.AVIATION /18Z SUNDAY THROUGH FRIDAY/...
Low pressure east of New England will continue to track slowly
away from the area, while weak high pressure builds in from the
west into Monday.

This will be mainly a VFR forecast with occasional MVFR this
afternoon at KGON. Low chance of MVFR elsewhere. 

N-NW winds 10-15 kt with gusts 20-25 kt, with a few higher 
gusts possible. Gusts diminish between 22Z and 00Z tonight. 
Winds will then gradually back around through Monday morning at 
10 kt or less. 

 ...NY Metro (KEWR/KLGA/KJFK/KTEB) TAF Uncertainty... 

Low chance MVFR ceilings this afternoon.

.OUTLOOK FOR 18Z MONDAY THROUGH THURSDAY...

Monday Afternoon: VFR. MVFR or lower in possible showers at 
night. Chance of late afternoon seabreeze. 

Tuesday: VFR. Slight chance of showers. W wind gusts 20-25 kt.

Wednesday: VFR. WNW wind gusts 25-30 kt. 

Thursday: VFR. NW wind gusts 15-20 kt.

Friday: VFR. Chance of showers at night. 

Detailed information, including hourly TAF wind component forecasts, 
can be found at: https:/www.weather.gov/zny/n90

&&

.MARINE...
SCA remains on the ocean mainly for wave heights above 5 feet
with some gusts to 25 kt. Waves finally drop below SCA
thresholds this afternoon with sub-SCA prevailing for all waters
through at least Tuesday afternoon. 

SCA possible for late Tuesday night into Wednesday behind cold 
frontal passage with gusts to around 25 kt on all waters, but right 
now it looks marginal. Waves on the ocean will start off at around 5 
ft for the ocean waters Tuesday night, building to 5 to 7 ft by 
Wednesday, then diminish Wednesday night. Thereafter, no marine 
concerns through Friday with high pressure building into the
area.

&&

.HYDROLOGY...
No significant hydrologic impacts are expected through the 
period.

&&

.OKX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CT...None.
NY...None.
NJ...None.
MARINE...Small Craft Advisory until 6 PM EDT this evening for ANZ350-
     353-355.

&&

$$

SYNOPSIS...JP/MW
NEAR TERM...BC/MW
SHORT TERM...MW
LONG TERM...JP
AVIATION...DW
MARINE...JP/MW
HYDROLOGY...JP/MW
