093 
FXUS61 KOKX 020530
AFDOKX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service New York NY
130 AM EDT Wed Apr 2 2025

.SYNOPSIS...
High pressure builds over New England this morning and then off
the coast this afternoon. A warm front then approaches from the
southwest on Thursday. High pressure briefly builds in from the
north on Friday. A couple of frontal boundaries near or over 
the region will bring unsettled conditions this weekend. High 
pressure then slowly builds in for Monday and Tuesday.

&&

.NEAR TERM /UNTIL 6 AM THIS MORNING/...
The forecast remains on track.

Skies remain mostly clear for much of the overnight under the 
westerly flow aloft, though some high clouds look to begin to 
stream in toward daybreak. Temperatures will be a bit tricky 
given this increase in cloud cover from the west along with 
weakening winds. With good radiational cooling/decoupling likely
have maintained the cooler side of the guidance (MAVs) with mid
20s across the interior and across eastern Long Island, with 
mid to upper 30s elsewhere. Of course, should winds remain 
elevated lows will be a bit warmer.

Note: The growing season begins today for parts of the area
including Nassau County, NYC and parts of northeast NJ. 
Temperatures look to remain above freezing tonight for the zones
where the growing season has begun; thus no headlines were 
needed.

&&

.SHORT TERM /6 AM THIS MORNING THROUGH 6 PM THURSDAY/...
Zonal flow aloft on Wednesday amplifies to more of a ridging 
pattern on Thursday as an upper low ejects out of the northern 
plains. Surface high pressure remains in control on Wednesday, 
keeping the local area dry. Winds do become southerly late 
Wednesday in early Thursday, as the ridge axis shifts east of 
the area. Highs remain in the upper 40s under predominately 
easterly surface flow.

Low pressure over the Great Lakes heads east Wednesday night into 
Thursday, bringing a warm front to the area. Increasing moisture 
with southerly flow ahead of this front will provide increased 
chances of rain early Thursday along with fog potential. The 
front looks to lift north or remain draped over the northern
parts of the CWA after 12Z Thursday. This will result shower 
chances for much of the day, depending where the front 
ultimately ends up. Highs will be warmer than on Wednesday as 
much of the region is warm sectored, in the mid and upper 60s
across the coasts and interior and low 70s for NYC. Have kept 
thunder chances out for now with limited instability, but can't 
rule out a rumble or two Thursday afternoon.

&&

.LONG TERM /THURSDAY NIGHT THROUGH TUESDAY/...
Model consensus brings high confidence in an upper ridge over 
the forecast area through at least Sunday afternoon. A few mid-
level shortwaves and surface boundaries will bring varying 
probabilities of rainfall with perhaps the exception being 
Friday afternoon and night when surface high pressure dominates 
with dry weather. Best chances of rain (greater than 60%) would 
be Saturday and Saturday night with the approach of a warm 
front, although left Thursday night's chances at 50-60% with 
uncertainty in the position of a frontal boundary nearby. Even 
though PWATs may be 2-3 standard deviations above normal, upward
forcing looks to be relatively weak in the absence of notable 
low level jets and upper jet streaks in addition to shearing of 
mid level shortwaves as they run into the ridge in place. 
Hydrologic impacts would therefore appear to be limited at this 
time. As for temperatures through Sunday, NBM was used, however 
uncertainty increases significantly on Sunday as there's a 10-20
degree spread between the 25th and 75th percentiles for high 
temperatures - a result of uncertainty surrounding the northward
progression of a warm front and how much cloud cover would 
remain ahead of a trailing cold front. Given the synoptic 
pattern, thinking is that we would have a better chance of being
on the warmer side of the envelope.

As for Monday and Tuesday, an approaching longwave trough would help 
push a cold front through the area Sunday night. Some uncertainty 
regarding post-frontal shower chances for Monday as a cyclonic flow 
remains aloft and a strong upper jet streak enhances synoptic lift. 
In any case, moisture would be more limited, so the more likely 
scenario is for dry weather for Monday, which would last into 
Tuesday.

&&

.AVIATION /06Z WEDNESDAY THROUGH SUNDAY/...
High pressure builds over New England this morning and then off
the coast this afternoon. A warm front approaches from the
southwest tonight and lifts over the terminals Thursday morning.  

VFR through 00z Thursday. MVFR ceilings are likely to develop
thereafter with the likelihood of IFR towards 05-08z. LIFR is
then expected around day break Thursday. A shower cannot be
completely ruled out tonight and there is also potential of
drizzle late tonight into early Thursday morning. 

NNW-NNW winds around 10 kt or less before day break. Winds will
continue veering to the ENE-E this morning, becoming E-SE by
early afternoon. Wind speeds will increase to 10-15 kt. Gusts to
around 20 kt are possible, especially for coastal terminals late
afternoon and early evening.  

LLWS expected late tonight and Thursday morning with SW
winds 45-50 kt at 2kft. 

 ...NY Metro (KEWR/KLGA/KJFK/KTEB) TAF Uncertainty...

Timing of wind shift to the SE may be off by 1-3 hours. 

Wind gusts late afternoon/early evening may be occasional. 

Amendments for timing of flight category changes likely for
tonight into Thursday morning. 

.OUTLOOK FOR 06Z WEDNESDAY THROUGH SUNDAY...

Late Tonight: IFR, likely becoming LIFR with a few showers or
drizzle. SE-S wind gusts 20 kt possible near coast. 

Thursday: LIFR to IFR in the morning, potentially improving to
MVFR in the afternoon. Showers possible, especially in the
morning and then again at night. S gusts 20-25 kt possible along
the coast.  

Friday: MVFR early with a chance of showers, then VFR.

Saturday: MVFR to IFR with showers likely. E wind gusts 
15-20kt.

Sunday: IFR in the morning, becoming MVFR. A chance of showers.

Detailed information, including hourly TAF wind component 
forecasts, can be found at: https:/www.weather.gov/zny/n90

&&

.MARINE...
SCAs remain in effect on the ocean waters tonight through
Wednesday morning. Almost canceled the advisory west of Fire
Island Inlet based on observations at buoy 44025, which shows
seas hovering just below 5 ft for the past few hours. With still
a potential that a long period SSE swell pushes seas a little
bit higher over the next few hours, decided to keep the advisory
going for the time being. With that said, may be able to drop
the advisory with the next update. The remaining ocean waters
may be able to have the advisory dropped by the end of tonight
as well. 

NWPS guidance has waves lowering for a period during Wednesday,
before becoming more elevated Wednesday night and returning to advisory
levels by late at night all the way into Friday morning. In
addition, non-ocean waters could see gusts to 25kt Thursday 
afternoon.

After some lingering seas of 5 ft possible Friday morning, the 
next chance of advisory conditions would be during the day on 
Saturday over the ocean waters, with a better chance following 
for Sunday as low pressure approaches.

&&

.HYDROLOGY...
No hydrologic impacts are expected through early next week.

&&

.OKX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CT...None.
NY...None.
NJ...None.
MARINE...Small Craft Advisory until noon EDT today for ANZ350-353.

&&

$$

SYNOPSIS...JC/DBR
NEAR TERM...JC/DBR/BR
SHORT TERM...DBR
LONG TERM...JC
AVIATION...DS
MARINE...JC/DBR
HYDROLOGY...JC/DBR
