003 
FXUS61 KOKX 031916
AFDOKX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service New York NY
316 PM EDT Sat May 3 2025

.SYNOPSIS...
A slow moving cold front will approach this afternoon and
evening, then lift back north tonight as a warm front. A large
sprawling low pressure system over the Ohio Valley and high 
pressure out over the Atlantic will then combine to bring
unsettled conditions beginning this weekend. The low will move
across Tuesday night into early Wednesday, then pass to the
northeast later next week, with associated frontal boundary
remaining not too far away.

&&

.NEAR TERM /THROUGH TONIGHT/...
Sunshine should allow temps to quickly climb to the lower 80s 
across a good deal of the interior and into the 70s across Long 
Island and southern CT. As the front to the west begins to 
approach showers/tstms will become numerous north/west of NYC. A
corridor of moderate instability with MLCAPE 1500 J/kg will be 
in place across the Hudson Valley and NW NJ, with low level SW 
flow increasing to 25 kt and mid level flow up to 45 kt, 
providing ample ingredients for strong to severe thunderstorms 
inland NW of NYC this afternoon mainly after 18Z. SPC forecasts 
a slight risk for areas along/NW of I-287, with damaging winds 
and some large hail the primary concerns. A marginal tornado 
risk also exists given the stronger low level SW flow, but think
this would be isolated/conditional at best, depending on 
channeled S low level flow up the river valleys to help increase
low level helicity. A marginal flash flood threat also exists 
in this corridor, as training of cells may also occur as the low
to mid level flow aligns with the frontal boundary. Localized 
rainfall amounts of 1-2+ inches look possible per 00Z HREF PMM 
QPF. 

Even though chances for tstms increase late today into this
evening down into the NYC metro area, western Long Island and 
southern CT as the front sags SE, the threat for svr wx is more
marginal there as fcst soundings do not look as unstable, and 
more of a marine influence will exist due to S flow along the 
coast. In fact, southerly sea breezes should gust to 25-30 mph 
during mid to late afternoon along the south shore of Long 
Island, and to 20-25 mph across southern CT.

Convection should wane during the late evening and overnight,
and the frontal boundary should retreat back to the north as a
warm front overnight. Some patchy fog may be possible where
earlier heavier rainfall occurred. Low temps will fall to the 
lower 60s in NYC and NE NJ, and into the 50s elsewhere.

&&

.SHORT TERM /SUNDAY THROUGH MONDAY/...
On Sunday look for clouds to linger with a S-SE onshore flow
ahead of the low to the west. Rain chances increase especially
during the afternoon/evening as an Atlantic moisture feed sets 
up between the low to the west and offshore high pressure, with 
the best chances for heavier rain late Sunday night into Monday.

With onshore flow and thicker cloud cover temps will not be as
warm, with highs both days in the 60s to lower 70s, and lows 
Sunday night in the 50s.

&&

.LONG TERM /MONDAY NIGHT THROUGH FRIDAY/...
The region remains in a rainy weather pattern overall during the
long term. Rain is not expected the entire timeframe but at 
least chances for rain appear for each time period Monday night 
through Friday. Instability and forcing make for chances of 
thunderstorms as well within the Monday night through midweek 
timeframe. Relatively highest chances of thunderstorms are 
forecast on Tuesday into early Tuesday evening.

Cutoff upper level low continues to approach the region Monday
night through Tuesday night. This upper level low eventually 
exits east of the region Wednesday into Wednesday night. 
However, another upper level trough moves into the region behind
the low going into late week.

At the surface, a frontal boundary remains within the region
Monday night into Tuesday. Low pressure center associated with
this frontal boundary will be approaching the area as well. 
Would expect a greater amount of vertical forcing as a result.

The low pressure center itself moves across Tuesday night into
early Wednesday. The low then moves northeast of the region 
towards late week. Vertical forcing will decrease Tuesday night 
into Wednesday. However, synoptic lift becomes favorable once 
again with another front moving into the region.

Temperatures average above normal during the long term period. 
Relatively warmest day is on Wednesday and Thursday when 
forecast high temperatures reach the upper 60s to lower 70s for 
much of the region.

&&

.AVIATION /18Z SATURDAY THROUGH THURSDAY/...
A stalled frontal boundary will reside in close proximity to 
the Lower Hudson Valley through Sunday. This will serve as a 
focus for showers and thunderstorms.

Expect mainly VFR conditions outside of any showers and/or 
thunderstorms through tonight. There is some uncertainty with 
the lowering of ceilings late tonight into Sunday morning. At
this time, have opted to be slower with lowering categories 
into Sunday, but ultimately the trend will be for lowering 
categories through the day Sunday. 

Gusty S/SW winds this afternoon at 10-15kt with gusts 20-25 kts.
KJFK will generally be sustained at 15-20kt. Winds will then
diminish this evening and back to the S/SE overnight at 10 kt or
less. Winds may become more easterly toward daybreak. 

 ...NY Metro (KEWR/KLGA/KJFK/KTEB) TAF Uncertainty...

Winds this afternoon/early evening will vary 170-230 due to the
close proximity of a surface trough. Timing of gusts ending may
vary by 1-2 hours.  

Amendments are likely to refine the timing of showers and 
thunderstorms.

Chance of MVFR/IFR Sunday morning.

.OUTLOOK FOR 18Z SUNDAY THROUGH THURSDAY...

Sunday Afternoon: Lowering to MVFR/IFR, especially toward
evening. Showers likely. Slight chance of thunderstorms at the
NYC and Lower Hudson Valleys.

Monday: Showers likely with MVFR or lower expected. A slight
chance of tstms. E winds G15-20kt. 

Tuesday: Showers with MVFR or lower expected. A chance of  
thunderstorms. SE winds G15-20kt day into early eve possible.

Wednesday: Chance of MVFR or lower with a slight chance of 
showers/thunderstorms.

Thursday: VFR 

Detailed information, including hourly TAF wind component
forecasts, can be found at: https:/www.weather.gov/zny/n90

&&

.MARINE...
SCA conditions expected for the ocean from mid afternoon into 
tonight, with seas building to 5-6 ft on a long fetch S flow 
increasing to 20 kt. A period of SCA cond also expected on the 
south shore bays of Long Island due to an enhanced sea breeze 
with gusts up to 25 kt. 

A brief window of SCA cond is also possible for the ocean W of
Fire Island Inlet late Mon afternoon into Mon evening, with E
flow gusting up to 25 kt and seas building to 5 ft.

&&

.HYDROLOGY...
A marginal flash flood risk exists for this afternoon/evening
for inland areas NW of NYC, as tstms there will be capable of
producing 1-2+ inches of rain in a short period of time. Most of
the impacts should be at nuisance level, but cannot rule out an
isolated flash flood event. 

Rain could also be heavy at times from late Sunday night 
through early Wednesday. With parallel flow from lower to upper 
levels, training of showers and thunderstorms could occur. 
Minor flooding will be possible for excessive runoff in low 
lying, urban, and poor drainage areas.

&&

.OKX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CT...None.
NY...None.
NJ...None.
MARINE...Small Craft Advisory until 8 PM EDT this evening for ANZ345.
     Small Craft Advisory until 6 AM EDT Sunday for ANZ350-353-355.

&&

$$

SYNOPSIS...BG/JM
NEAR TERM...BG
SHORT TERM...BG
LONG TERM...JM
AVIATION...DW
MARINE...BG/JM
HYDROLOGY...BG/JM
