560 
FXUS61 KOKX 080038
AFDOKX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service New York NY
838 PM EDT Sat Jun 7 2025

.SYNOPSIS...
A cold front push east of the area this evening. Weak high 
pressure then briefly follows for Sunday, followed by an area of
low pressure passing to the south and east Sunday night into 
Monday. A slow moving frontal system will work across the area 
Tuesday into Tuesday night. High pressure returns Wednesday and 
remains near the region through Friday. Another frontal system 
may affect the region late Friday into the weekend.

&&

.NEAR TERM /UNTIL 6 AM SUNDAY MORNING/...
Shortwave aloft and cold front pushes east through 10pm. An 
additional 1/2", locally 1 to 1 1/2+" across Suffolk County 
through 10pm before cold front passes through and pushes heavy 
downpours and embedded thunderstorms offshore. Minor urban and 
poor drainage flood threat with this activity, otherwise no 
widespread hydrologic issues through Monday night. 

Otherwise, drier airmass advects into the region overnight on 
northerly winds in wake of cold front. This should help dense 
fog along oceanfront and far SE portions of the CWA to scour out
late this evening, but with winds lightening overnight, could 
have some patchy fog development overnight where heavy rain 
occurred.

Less muggy conditions tonight, with lower tds and temps dropping 
into the upper 50s across interior and LI pine barrens, and 
lower 60s elsewhere. 

&&

.SHORT TERM /6 AM SUNDAY MORNING THROUGH MONDAY NIGHT/...
Weak high pressure builds across the area on Sunday, but then 
weakens with the approach of a broad area of low pressure 
approaching from the south and west. It should remain dry for most 
of the day with rain chances increasing late in the afternoon over 
the western parts of the forecast area. 

Conditions should be dry for most of the day on Monday, then chances 
increase Monday night as a cold front moves closer to the area.

Temperatures on Sunday will be in the low to mid 70s with nighttime 
lows in the upper 50s to low 60s. Temperatures will be a few degrees 
cooler on Monday with highs in the upper 60s to low 70s.

&&

.LONG TERM /TUESDAY THROUGH SATURDAY/...
Great Lakes closed low drifts into southern Ontario on Tuesday and 
then shears NE through southern Quebec Tuesday Night into Wednesday 
ahead of next northern stream shortwave/closed moving east through 
southern Canada. Good model agreement in an associated trough axis 
approaching Tuesday/Tue eve and pivoting through late Tue night/Wed.

At the surface, a surface trough/cold front associated with the 
Great Lakes low, and southern surface wave tracking NE along the 
front will approach and cross the area on Tuesday. Large scale 
synoptic lift from approaching trough, NE shearing southern stream 
shortwave, and modest RRJ ULJ lift of a +1-1 1/2 std PWATs airmass 
will be sufficient for increasing shower activity from SW to NE Tues 
Am. Overall, basin average model QPF is light, but potential for 
locally heavy downpours and elevated thunder, particularly N&W of 
NYC with best coincidence of mid/upper forcing, weak elevated 
instability, orographic enhancement of E/SE low-level flow, and 
storm motion aligning with the slow moving frontal boundary. WPC Day 
4 marginal risk of excessive rainfall dropping into northern 
portions of the LoHud seems reasonable to start. Overall, best upper 
level forcing and instability seems to lag the surface features, 
minimizing a localized flash flood threat farther SE towards the 
coast. Strong to severe threat appears limited despite strong shear 
profiles, due to weak instability. Shower/thunderstorm activity 
should taper from W to E later Tue aft/early eve as the surface 
wave, trough axis/cold front slides through.

Thereafter, warming temp for Wed thru Fri, possibly Sat as region 
lies on southern edge of westerlies, with heights gradually rising 
under the influence of SE US ridging and high pressure sliding in 
from the West. Temps likely several degrees above seasonable Wed 
(upper 70s/lower 80s), and as much as 10 to 15 degrees above normal 
for Thu/Fri away from south coasts (mid to upper 80s), lower 80s for 
the south coast. Have blended in a slight bit of the NBM 50th with 
the NBM deterministic, since the NBM deterministic lies below the 
10th percentile of the NBM ensemble. Low probability (less than 30%) 
of exceeding 95F heat index across NYC/NJ metro an points N&W for 
Thu-Sat.

Next feature of note will be a combo of a northern stream shortwave 
approaching from Hudson Bay Friday Night into Saturday, and 
potential southern plains closed low partially shearing NE towards 
the area. This will bring potential for a a weak cold front/pre-
frontal trough to approach as early as late Friday, and subsequent 
cold front to approach/linger through Sat Night before pushing 
through. Inherently low predictability on these convectively 
enhanced shortwave interactions this far out, but low chance pops 
are warranted to address this threat.

&&

.AVIATION /00Z SUNDAY THROUGH THURSDAY/...
A cold front will continue to track across southern and eastern most 
terminals this evening. The front stalls offshore and to the south 
late tonight and into Sunday. 

A slow transition continues from sub VFR to VFR for the remainder of 
this evening, with sub VFR hanging in longer across eastern most 
terminals like KISP and KGON for much of tonight with low stratus 
and fog. Low confidence remains in fcst for tonight and into Sunday 
with regard to whether low stratus and fog completely gets out of 
eastern most terminals. Also pockets of MVFR and IFR likely for KHPN 
and KSWF for a portion of tonight with patchy fog. 

Another low confidence fcst Sunday with low clouds residing nearby 
along and just off the coast and over the ocean, but most areas 
still expected to stay VFR for the first half of the day. Sub VFR 
conditions (mainly MVFR) is then expected to return at some point 
Sunday afternoon, with timing uncertain.

Winds tonight will be NE and light, generally less than or around 5 
kt, before becoming more E on Sunday at 8 to 13 kt.

 ...NY Metro (KEWR/KLGA/KJFK/KTEB) TAF Uncertainty...

Amendments possible throughout the entire TAF period for changing flight 
categories, especially during Sunday afternoon and early 
Sunday evening.

.OUTLOOK FOR 00Z MONDAY THROUGH THURSDAY... 

Sunday afternoon: Mainly VFR to start, with MVFR likely to return. 
Chance for rain Sun night with MVFR or lower. 

Monday: Becoming VFR with light E flow.

Tuesday: MVFR or lower possible with shwrs and tstms. Varying winds 
with a frontal sys.

Wednesday - Thursday: VFR with W flow. 

Detailed information, including hourly TAF wind component forecasts, 
can be found at: https:/www.weather.gov/zny/n90

&&

.MARINE...
Dense fog continues across the central and eastern ocean 
waters, southern and eastern bays of LI, and E LI Sound this 
evening, with gradual improvement from NW to SE through 10pm to 
midnight as cold front pushes offshore and drier airmass advects
over the waters.

Marginal SCA ocean seas are expected to fall below SCA tonight
into Sunday morning, but potential for a period of SCA ocean seas
to develop Sunday Night into Monday on easterly winds.
Conditions should gradually fall below SCA Monday.

Potential for 5 ft seas Tuesday night into Wednesday, mainly in S 
swells as a result of a slow moving frontal system. Marginal 
nearshore SCA gusts possible during the day Wed in offshore flow 
behind cold front. Seas should then fall below SCA conditions late 
Wednesday as high pressure builds towards the water, continuing thru 
Friday.

&&

.HYDROLOGY...
An additional 1/2", locally 1 to 1 1/2+" across Suffolk County
through 10pm before cold front passes through and pushes 
heavy downpours and embedded thunderstorms offshore. Minor 
urban and poor drainage flood threat with this activity, 
otherwise no widespread hydrologic issues through Monday night. 

Showers and embedded thunderstorms Tuesday may produce a basin wide 
1/4 to 1/2" of rain. Localized 1+" amounts possible, particularly 
N&W of NYC, presenting a low and localized threat of flash flooding 
on Tuesday.

&&

.TIDES/COASTAL FLOODING...
A High Rip Current Risk continues through Sunday evening for 
all locations along the oceanfront.

SE swells remain at 3-4 ft on Sunday, mixed with a long period 
SE background swell and a building 2 to 3 ft E wind wave. This 
should maintain a moderate to high risk of rips with a west to 
east sweep of 3 to 4 ft, occasionally 5 ft breaking surf. An E 
to W longshore current will likely become favored in the 
afternoon.

A moderate to possibly high rip risk likely on Monday with 3-4 
ft ESE wind waves building, and a background of 1-2 ft SE/S 
swells. E to W longshore current would be favored.


&&

.OKX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CT...None.
NY...High Risk for Rip Currents through Sunday evening for NYZ075-080-
     081-178-179.
NJ...None.
MARINE...Dense Fog Advisory until 11 PM EDT this evening for ANZ332-340-
     345-350-353-355.
     Small Craft Advisory until 11 PM EDT this evening for ANZ350-
     353.
     Small Craft Advisory until 8 PM EDT this evening for ANZ355.

&&

$$

SYNOPSIS...20/NV
NEAR TERM...NV
SHORT TERM...20
LONG TERM...NV
AVIATION...JE
MARINE...20/NV 
HYDROLOGY...20/NV 
TIDES/COASTAL 
FLOODING...NV
