230 
FXUS61 KOKX 071913
AFDOKX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service New York NY
313 PM EDT Mon Jul 7 2025

.SYNOPSIS...
Low pressure passes nearby into tonight. A cold front approaches 
Tuesday and begins to move through the area Tuesday night. The 
front likely stalls nearby the rest of the week leading to 
unsettled conditions, potentially into the upcoming weekend.

&&

.NEAR TERM /THROUGH TONIGHT/...
The center of the remnants of what was TS Chantal are spinning 
over the mouth of the Chesapeake Bay early this afternoon, 
passing off the Delmarva this evening and skirting south of 
Long Island tonight.

A deep tropical air mass has advected in with high pressure over
the Atlantic helping steer the plume north. 12Z OKX sounding 
found a PWAT over 2 inches this morning, and moisture 
convergence along a surface trough located just to the west of 
the area will continue to serve as the primary focus for shower 
and thunderstorm development into this evening.

Given the depth of the moisture, soundings are supportive of 
efficient, warm rain processes, and MLCAPE values are over 1000
J/kg, torrential downpours are likely with any activity that
develops. 12Z HREF 3-hr QPF continues to offer at least a 10 
percent risk of 3 inches in 3 hours for parts of NE NJ late this
afternoon, also where FFG values are lowest in the region. WPC 
has expanded the slight risk for excessive rainfall for this 
same area. 

Elsewhere, showers possible, but coverage looks to be lower and
perhaps just isolated. Locally a quick inch or two possible with
the downpours, particularly west of the Hudson, but basin QPF 
should average under a half inch, and some locales may see 
little to no rainfall through tonight. Activity diminishes this
evening as the remnant low passes south and east of the region,
and conditions tonight remain mild and muggy, with the 
potential for areas of patchy fog to develop. Temperatures 
remain in the 70s everywhere overnight.

&&

.SHORT TERM /TUESDAY THROUGH TUESDAY NIGHT/...
In the wake of the remnants of Chantal exiting our to sea, a
cold front back to the west begins to approach through the day
on Tuesday.

Deep tropical moisture remains in place ahead of the front, and
showers and thunderstorms look to develop once again into the 
afternoon hours as the boundary approaches. The main concern 
will once again be torrential downpours and localized flash 
flooding. WPC has expanded a slight risk to now include the 
entire local area, indicating isolated to scattered areas of 
flash flooding are possible.

Also can't rule out a few isolated strong to severe thunderstorms,
with damaging wind gusts the main threat. SPC has much of the 
area in a marginal risk, with a slight just off to the south and
west over NJ. Given tall CAPE profiles in a weak shear, uncapped
environment, there is potential for an isolated downburst or 
two. Latest hires CAMs develop clusters of convection by mid 
afternoon across the I95 corridor from the Mid Atlantic and into
the local Tri State, before propagating east into the early 
evening.

In addition to the heavy rainfall threat, temperatures on
Tuesday may be able to achieve lower 90s across the urban
corridor of NE NJ and NYC, especially if enough clearing occurs
early in the day before convection initiates. Given dew pts into
the 70s, peak heat indices are progged around 100F and a heat
advisory was hoisted for NYC, most of NE NJ, southern
Westchester, and Nassau Co. Elsewhere, marginal advisory
criteria is possible, but think values largely remain more in
the mid to upper 90s.

Precipitation diminishes overnight, but the advancing front 
slows and potentially stalls over the area Tuesday night, and 
conditions remain mild and muggy with temperatures only falling 
back into the 70s.


&&

.LONG TERM /WEDNESDAY THROUGH SUNDAY/...
The NBM was followed with no changes. 

Key Points:

*  A stalled front south of the area Wednesday and Thursday 
   will remain in the general vicinity through the end of the 
   week and into the weekend. 

*  Expect a period of unsettled weather with a chance of showers 
   and/or thunderstorms each day.

*  Temperatures should be right around average for this time of
   the year with highs each day in the lower/mid 80s.

&&

.AVIATION /18Z MONDAY THROUGH SATURDAY/...
High pressure will remain offshore, while weak low pressure passes 
to the south this afternoon and tonight. A cold front approaches 
late tonight and remains in the vicinity through Tuesday morning.

Generally VFR for most terminals, except for eastern terminals such 
as KISP and KGON, which may only improve to MVFR this afternoon with 
brief breaks of VFR at times. MVFR to IFR conditions move back in 
tonight, mainly for eastern terminals, with better conditions as you 
head west. KJFK may see brief IFR conditions, while KEWR will likely 
remain VFR. 

As for precipitation, better chance for thunderstorms across the 
western metro terminals (KEWR and KTEB) where there is a VCTS from 
19Z-22Z this afternoon. Thunderstorms are more likely here, but 
there is still some uncertainty with how far north they make it. If 
they do move through, they will be associated with MVFR conditions 
or lower. Less probable, but still at least 30% chance of seeing 
thunder for KJFK and KLGA from 18Z today through 00Z tonight.

A S to SSE wind around 10 kt at the metro and coastal terminals, and 
light inland, though winds may vary from SE to SW through early this 
afternoon. Winds become light and variable once again tonight. A SW 
to WSW wind sets up Tuesday at around 10 kt by mid to late morning.

 ...NY Metro (KEWR/KLGA/KJFK/KTEB) TAF Uncertainty... 

AMD likely for flight category changes this morning and to fine tune 
any timing for showers and thunderstorms this afternoon.

AMD likely overnight with changes in flight category in low 
stratus/fog, mainly for KLGA and KEWR.

.OUTLOOK FOR 18Z TUESDAY THROUGH FRIDAY... 

Tuesday afternoon: VFR, except MVFR or lower in afternoon showers 
and tstms especially from the NYC metros north/west. Gusty winds 
also possible in stronger storms. 

Wednesday through Friday: Afternoon and evening showers/tstms 
possible each day, with brief MVFR or IFR conditions. 

Saturday: Mainly VFR. A slight chance for showers and an isolated 
thunderstorm with MVFR or lower conditions.

Detailed information, including hourly TAF wind component forecasts, 
can be found at: https:/www.weather.gov/zny/n90

&&

.MARINE...
Seas build toward 5 ft tonight with a SE swell on Atlantic 
ocean waters east of Fire Island Inlet, and a Small Craft 
Advisory was hoisted here from 6Z Tue thru 6Z Wed. 

Elsewhere, winds and seas are expected to remain below advisory
criteria much of the week, and potentially through the weekend.

&&

.HYDROLOGY...
Torrential downpours are possible into this evening with
scattered showers and thunderstorms, especially across NE NJ, 
NYC metro, and Lower Hudson Valley. This could lead to areas of
nuisance flooding and localized flash flooding. WPC has NE NJ 
in a slight risk for excessive rainfall, with NYC and the Lower
Hudson Valley outlined in a marginal risk. 

Additional rounds of showers and thunderstorms Tuesday afternoon
could once again produce locally heavy rainfall that leads to
flooding. WPC has expanded a slight risk across the entire local
region. A marginal risk remains in place for much of the area 
on Wednesday.

&&

.TIDES/COASTAL FLOODING...
The rip risk through this evening on all ocean beaches continues to 
be moderate with 2-3 foot surf heights. For Tuesday, the risk 
increases to high with surf heights around 5 feet.

&&

.OKX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CT...Air Quality Alert until 11 PM EDT this evening for CTZ005-009.
NY...Heat Advisory from 10 AM to 8 PM EDT Tuesday for NYZ071>075-
     176>179.
     High Risk for Rip Currents from Tuesday morning through Tuesday 
     evening for NYZ075-080-081-178-179.
NJ...Heat Advisory from 10 AM to 8 PM EDT Tuesday for NJZ004-006-
     104>108.
MARINE...Small Craft Advisory from 2 AM Tuesday to 2 AM EDT Wednesday 
     for ANZ350-353.

&&

$$

SYNOPSIS...DR
NEAR TERM...DR
SHORT TERM...DR
LONG TERM...
AVIATION...JP
MARINE...DR
HYDROLOGY...DR
TIDES/COASTAL FLOODING...
