030 
FXUS61 KOKX 110413
AFDOKX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service New York NY
1113 PM EST Fri Jan 10 2025

.SYNOPSIS...
Low pressure passes well offshore late tonight into early
Saturday. High pressure then builds in and settles Sunday 
before pushing offshore Monday in response to an approaching 
cold front. The cold front passes Monday night. High pressure 
builds in again for the middle of next week. Another low from 
Canada may approach Thursday into Friday.

&&

.NEAR TERM /THROUGH SATURDAY/...
Low pressure continues to move across the southeast as southern
stream energy rapidly pushes towards the coast. PVA aloft
increases through early Saturday, which can already be seen with
radar returns increasing to our southwest across the Middle
Atlantic. At the same time, a northern stream shortwave dives
southeastward towards the area. These systems do not phase until
the associated low is well south and east of our area on
Saturday. This will yield only light snow early Saturday
morning, likely beginning by 4-5am city on west and then by 6-7
am further east. Latest trends indicate the area of light snow
will be fast moving and likely diminishes in coverage after 12z
as the PVA and mid level lift decrease. Most of the area should
be dry by around 14-15z with just a few lingering flurries out
east. 

Will keep the likely PoPs early in the morning as there is 
still a high probability of measurable precip in the form of 
light snow. Do not think snow to liquid ratios will be much 
higher than 10:1-11:1 given the poor snow growth expected with 
the weak lift. Snowfall accumulations look to be about a coating
to under a half inch. Temperatures within the light snow look to be 
in the upper 20s and to around 30. 

Dry conditions prevail this afternoon, but it will likely 
remain mostly cloudy as the northern stream trough and energy 
swing across the area. Temperatures then rise into the low and 
middle 30s for highs. NW winds will also increase with gusts to 
around 20 mph possible late in the day. 

&&

.SHORT TERM /SATURDAY NIGHT/...
The upper level trough axis will be just east of the area at the 
start of Saturday night. High pressure starts building in at the 
surface and the pressure gradient across the area tightens. This 
will lead to a brief period of some gusty conditions Saturday
night. With gusty winds, effective radiational cooling is not
expected and stuck close to the NBM for lows.

&&

.LONG TERM /SUNDAY THROUGH FRIDAY/...
High pressure builds into the region at the surface as an upper-
level ridge centers itself overhead. Both of these features push 
east offshore on Monday in response to a sfc and upper-low 
approaching from the Great Lakes on Monday. 

NW winds continue to weaken on Sunday turning W Sunday night as they 
go light or calm then turning SW on Monday in response to high 
pressure moving offshore. Dry, sunny weather is expected on Sunday 
before increasing clouds late Sunday night into Monday. Temperatures 
will be near seasonal values Sunday into Monday. Highs on Sunday and 
Monday will be in the upper-30s to lower-40s. Lows Sunday night will 
drop into the low to upper-20s.

A dry front pushes through Monday night as weak low pressure passes 
to the north. A trough digs an amplifies over the region Tuesday 
into Tuesday night, moving offshore on Wednesday. The region will 
then remain sandwiched in-between high pressure to the west and low 
pressure to the east on Wednesday and Thursday.

Blustery weather is expected to develop on Tuesday and remain 
through at least Thursday due to a a tight pressure gradient. Winds 
will not be as impactful as our recent stretch of gusty winds, but 
still expected NW winds to gust 25-30 mph, at times during this 
period. 

Strong cold air advection takes place Monday night into Tuesday 
following the frontal passage aided by a deepening trough and lower 
heights. Highs will be around freezing (32F) to the upper-20s 
Tuesday through Thursday. Lows each night will likewise be colder in 
the low-20s to mid-teens. Given the gusty NW flow, wind chills will 
be in the 20s to teens each afternoon, dropping to the single digits 
each night. 

While most of the long-term period is expected to be dry, there are 
some hints in global guidance that a surface trough may extend 
across the area Tuesday night into early Wednesday. Given dry air 
entrenched in the area, its unlikely precip will develop along this 
trough, but at least partly cloudy skies look likely. Some isolated 
flurries can not be ruled out. Flurries have not added to the 
official forecast, for now, given low confidence in flurries 
actually occurring. 

Thursday into Friday, most global models agrees on a weak low in 
Canada nearing from Hudson Bay, but they vary on its location. Some 
models keep high pressure in charge, while others bring the low 
closer to the region, with light snow possible in this scenario. 
Both scenarios would keep us under a somewhat tightened pressure 
gradient with continued breezy conditions. Though overall, winds may 
end up being a little weaker than what we see Tue through early
Thu.

&&

.AVIATION /04Z SATURDAY THROUGH WEDNESDAY/...
Weakening high pressure builds into the area through this evening
and then offshore by daybreak. Developing low pressure will pass
well south and east of the area late tonight into Saturday. A weak
surface trough extending north of the low will pass through the
area in the morning.

VFR through late tonight. A period of light snow is possible 
late tonight into Saturday morning, which may bring categories 
down to MVFR. Accumulation is expected to be limited to a light 
coating (less than 0.5").

NW flow will gradually back with speeds below 10 kt, eventually
becoming light and variable. Winds will then become NW late 
morning into the afternoon with gusts up to 20 kt toward 
evening.

 ...NY Metro (KEWR/KLGA/KJFK/KTEB) TAF Uncertainty...

Timing of light snow and MVFR conditions may vary by 1-2 hours.

OUTLOOK FOR 03Z SUNDAY THROUGH WEDNESDAY...

Saturday Night: VFR. NW gusts 20 kt possible.

Sunday-Monday: VFR.

Tuesday-Wednesday: VFR. NW wind gusts 20-30 kt possible.

Detailed information, including hourly TAF wind component forecasts, 
can be found at: https:/www.weather.gov/zny/n90

&&

.MARINE...
With the pressure gradient weakening over the area, winds and waves 
have lowered and fallen below SCA criteria for the first time in 
several days. Quiet conditions continue tonight through much of 
Saturday before northwest winds pick back up again Saturday night. 
As of right now, confidence is only high enough to issue a SCA 
across the ocean waters. This may need to be expanded to other 
waters by subsequent shifts. Gusts up to 25 kt and seas 3-4 ft 
are expected across the ocean Saturday night.

SCA conditions are not expected Sun-Mon. Midweek next week, winds 
may build to SCA levels on most waters.

&&

.HYDROLOGY...
There are no hydrologic concerns through next week.

&&

.OKX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CT...None.
NY...None.
NJ...None.
MARINE...Small Craft Advisory from 6 PM Saturday to 6 AM EST Sunday for 
     ANZ350-353-355.

&&

$$

SYNOPSIS...BR/JT
NEAR TERM...JT/DS
SHORT TERM...JT
LONG TERM...BR
AVIATION...MW
MARINE...BR/JT
HYDROLOGY...BR/JT
