290 
FXUS61 KOKX 020006
AFDOKX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service New York NY
806 PM EDT Tue Jul 1 2025

.SYNOPSIS...
A cold front will approach late today into this evening and
dissipate over the area on Wednesday. Another cold front will
approach on Thursday and move through by Thursday evening. High
pressure will then build in for Independence Day and into the
weekend. Another frontal system may impact the area early 
next week.

&&

.NEAR TERM /UNTIL 6 AM WEDNESDAY MORNING/...
Attm seeing temps in the lower 90s invof NYC and in the 
mid/upper 80s elsewhere. Dewpoints are running higher than 
anticipated, leading to widespread heat index values 95-99 away 
from the immediate south shore of eastern Long Island and SE CT,
and some 100+ values at KEWR/KJFK. 

Convective initiation is starting in a few spots, with a couple
of cells along a boundary stretching SW-NE from Hunterdon 
County NJ up into Fairfield CT, also to the south across central
NJ/ SE PA and to the north across the Catskills. Activity to 
the south may clip the lower reaches of NYC toward 20Z, while 
activity along the boundary over our CWA may also start to 
increase in coverage, and storms in the Catskills approach 
Orange/Putnam/N Fairfield/N New Haven. Coverage should be 
scattered at most initially as upper level forcing, low level 
moisture convergence in the pre-frontal trough over the area, 
and mid level lapse rates are all weak, then may increase after 
20Z-21Z as a weak mid level shortwave trough over eastern PA 
gets closer. No severe tstm watches are in effect for the area 
yet, but expectation is that a few storms may produce locally 
damaging winds and heavy rain in a very moist air mass with PW 
up to 2.1 inches and precip efficiency of 1.7 inches

There could be another pulse of convection later in the 
evening/overnight, but it would likely be primarily non-severe
due to lack of daytime heating/mixing and as previous activity 
will have worked the air mass over. 

There is also a slight risk of excessive rainfall across much 
of the area, mostly via high instantaneous rainfall rates, also
where any training of cells can occur given deep layer SW flow
with mid level flow no stronger than 30-35 kt. 

With the cold front more or less slowing late at night look for
a damp and cloudy, muggy night with low temperatures/dewpoints
both in the upper 60s/lower 70s.

&&

.SHORT TERM /6 AM WEDNESDAY MORNING THROUGH WEDNESDAY NIGHT/...
Will still have likely PoP across Long Island/SE CT and chance 
PoP for the rest of the area except well NW of NYC as the front
slowly moves into the area and washes out. By afternoon most of
the area should be dry except perhaps eastern Long Island, 
where a chance for showers and possibly a tstm could linger 
into the afternoon. Temps will be cooler than those of Tue, with
highs in the mid 80s north/west of NYC where the sun should peek
out in the afternoon, with mostly lower 80s elsewhere, and 
upper 70s right along the shoreline of SE CT and eastern Long 
Island. Dewpoints will still be running in the upper 60s to near
70 for NYC metro and coastal sections, and dropping into the 
mid 60s in the afternoon north/west, with heat index values no 
higher than 90 in some isolated spots in the urban corridor.

Wed night looks mostly clear, and a little cooler at least 
outside of the NYC metro area, with lows from the lower 70s in 
the metro area to the lower 60s across the interior. Dewpoints 
will continue to fall slightly, to the lower/mid 60s.

&&

.LONG TERM /THURSDAY THROUGH TUESDAY/...
**Key Points**

* A frontal system will impact the area Thursday, with a marginal 
  risk of severe thunderstorms.

* A dry Independence Day and weekend ahead, with normal to slightly 
  above normal temperatures and increasing humidity through the 
  period.

The NBM was largely followed with this update with no major
changes. An upper low dives south from eastern Canada into New 
England to start the period. Attendant surface low pressure well
to the north then drags a cold front through the area Thursday 
afternoon which should initiate a period of showers and 
thunderstorms. Model soundings do indicate some marginal lapse 
rates/ MUCAPE (500-1000 J/kg) and 0-6km bulk shear (~30 kts.) by
Thursday afternoon as an upper level jet streak passes nearby. 
This may be enough to initiate some organized, isolated strong 
to severe thunderstorms, and SPC maintains a marginal risk over 
the entire area given the potential for strong/damaging winds 
with any storm. With PWATs around 1.25" and steering flows near 
30kts, the probability of flash flooding looks quite low.

Thereafter, upper ridging commences with rising heights through
the weekend. Friday looks a bit cooler with lower humidity 
(Tds in the upper 50s and lower 60s) and warming temperatures 
(and humidity) each day through Monday.

&&

.AVIATION /00Z WEDNESDAY THROUGH SUNDAY/...
A cold stallS over the area into Wednesday morning.

Widespread rain, with isolated to scattered TSRA leading to 
MVFR vsbys at times this evening. Best chances for any TSRA is N
and W of the metro terminals where TSRA will be more isolated
through 02Z, possibly ending sooner. SHRA persist into the 
overnight, and MVFR cigs likely prevail late tonight until 
daybreak or so, then improvement and return to VFR thru mid 
morning, if not sooner.

SW flow becomes light tonight, under 10 kt, through Wed. Winds
shift to the W after 03Z tonight. Sea breezes expected for 
coastal terminals, shifting winds back to the S or SSW by late 
Wed morning into the early afternoon timeframe. 


 ...NY Metro (KEWR/KLGA/KJFK/KTEB) TAF Uncertainty...

Amendments likely due to uncertainty in timing of and flight
rule categories associated with SHRA/TSRA, improvement to VFR 

Isolated shra/tsra possible late Wed afternoon.

.OUTLOOK FOR 00Z THURSDAY THROUGH SUNDAY... 

Wednesday PM: VFR.

Thursday: Possible showers and thunderstorms with brief MVFR or 
lower possible day into early eve, higher chances north and west of 
NYC terminals.

Friday-Sunday: VFR.

Detailed information, including hourly TAF wind component
forecasts, can be found at: https:/www.weather.gov/zny/n90

&&

.MARINE...
As a cold front approaches, S flow will increase, with ocean
seas building to 4-5 ft and perhaps a few gusts close to 25 kt
on the outer waters mainly E of Fire Island Inlet late this 
afternoon into tonight. SCA remains in effect there through 
tonight. Tstms may pose a hazard of gusty winds, lightning, 
heavy rain, and locally rough seas into tonight as well, 
especially late today and this evening. 

Generally tranquil conditions expected thereafter outside of any
tstms on Thu.

&&

.HYDROLOGY...
There is a slight risk of excessive rainfall for most of the
area through tonight. With high PW in place, instantaneous
rainfall rates should be high, with a localized risk of flash
flooding in stronger thunderstorms. Repeating/training cells 
could lead to a higher risk, which is possible given deep layer 
SW flow with speeds getting over 30 kt in the mid levels.

&&

.TIDES/COASTAL FLOODING...
There is a high risk of rip currents today, and this could also
be the case into Wednesday, with wave heights not coming down 
much, along with a lingering 9-second E swell component.

&&

.OKX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CT...None.
NY...High Risk for Rip Currents through Wednesday evening for NYZ075-080-
     081-178-179.
NJ...None.
MARINE...Small Craft Advisory until 6 AM EDT Wednesday for ANZ350-353.

&&

$$

SYNOPSIS...BG/DBR
NEAR TERM...BG
SHORT TERM...BG
LONG TERM...DBR
AVIATION...JP
MARINE...BG/DBR
HYDROLOGY...BG/DBR
TIDES/COASTAL FLOODING...
