043 
FXUS61 KOKX 121745
AFDOKX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service New York NY
1245 PM EST Sun Jan 12 2025

.SYNOPSIS...
High pressure over the area will weaken tonight into Monday. 
A cold front will pass across Monday night, followed by high
pressure slowly building from the west from Tuesday through the
end of the week. A complex frontal boundary will work through
next weekend. 

&&

.NEAR TERM /THROUGH TONIGHT/...
Increased cloud coverage towards westernmost parts of the
forecast region, within Western Passaic County NJ and Orange 
County NY this morning. Otherwise, mostly sunny sky conditions 
are expected today. Also slightly increased temperatures. 
Otherwise, forecast remains on track.

Ridging builds overhead both aloft and at the surface through
this afternoon. This will lead to dry conditions along with 
diminishing winds. Skies will be mostly clear to start the day. 
There may be a slight increase in mid clouds in the afternoon as
some moisture starts pushing eastward ahead of digging upper 
low towards the Northern Plains and Great Lakes. High 
temperatures will likely be slightly above normal in the upper 
30s to lower 40s. 

The surface high weakens tonight and shifts southeast as the
upper ridge axis moves offshore. Middle level shortwave energy
ahead of the aforementioned upper low moves through which will 
bring mostly cloudy skies. The clouds should move east just 
before day break. No precipitation is expected the subcloud 
layer remains dry and the lift is very weak. Lows will fall into
the 20s across much of the area with the NYC metro around 30 
degrees.

&&

.SHORT TERM /MONDAY THROUGH TUESDAY NIGHT/...
The upper low and its associated surface low moves across
SE Canada Monday into Monday night. This will send a cold front
across the area by Monday evening, which will likely be 
offshore around day break Tuesday. A trailing shortwave and its 
associated middle level energy swing across late Tuesday into 
Tuesday night. 

Dry conditions are expected Monday through Tuesday night.
Temperatures on Monday will be slightly above normal and 
generally in the lower 40s. There may be some periods of 
scattered to broken clouds, especially as the cold front 
approaches. These clouds should diminish Monday night behind the
front and with increasing cold/dry advection. There does not 
appear to be a drastic temperature drop behind the front, but 
temperatures should bottom out in the lower to middle 20s by 
Tuesday morning. NW winds will also begin increasing with gusts 
20-25 mph expected Monday night. 

Blustery and cold conditions are likely on Tuesday as the region 
lies between building high pressure to the west and low pressure
towards the Maritimes and North Atlantic. NBM deterministic 
winds have been running too low in similar set ups with NW flow 
and cold advection. Have bumped up winds and wind gusts closer 
to the NBM 90th percentile, and these may need to be adjusted a 
up a bit more in subsequent forecasts. The low level flow and 
winds atop the mixed layer do not look as strong as what was 
observed last week. The NW flow, cold advection and subsidence 
should allow winds to reach 15- 20 mph with gusts 25-35 mph. A 
few gusts up to 40 mph are possible, especially near the coast. 
It may take some time for the winds to come up on Tuesday with 
peak winds occurring late in the day and at night once the 
shortwave moves across the area and the pressure gradient 
tightens. High temperatures will be below normal in the upper 
20s inland to the lower 30s closer to the coast. Wind chills 
look to be in the teens to around 20 during the day, but then 
fall to the single digits Tuesday night with actual lows in the 
teens to low 20s.

&&

.LONG TERM /WEDNESDAY THROUGH SATURDAY/...
Key Point(s)

* Dry, brisk, and cold Wednesday and Thursday.

* Temperature moderation late week. 

* Frontal boundary likely to approach next weekend with the our
  next round of measurable precipitation.

Trough in the East and ridge out West large scale pattern
generally holds for the foreseeable future. Although the 
eastern trough is likely to pull back further west Friday into 
Saturday. This should allow temperatures to turn milder, at 
least temporarily.

The main story for this period will be the return of brisk, at
times windy conditions for mid week. Some single digit wind 
chills are likely Wednesday morning, especially across far 
northern and northwestern portions of the area. Went above the 
consensus wind guidance on Wednesday as the region will be in 
the wake of a potent shortwave and strong mixing and a strong 
pressure gradient in place should allow wind gusts to approach 
30-35 mph during the daytime keeping wind chills in the teens. 
A high pressure ridge then settles across with the pressure 
gradient relaxing Wednesday night into Thursday with lighter 
winds. Dry conditions should continue into Friday with the high 
pressure ridge moving across. The ridge then gets offshore 
Friday night. A milder southerly flow should actually get 
temperatures above normal Friday night. A southerly flow out 
ahead of the cold frontal boundary may allow temperatures to 
slowly rise Friday night, especially late as more cloud cover is
expected to arrive. Have increased PoPs into the day Saturday. 
An elongated southerly fetch ahead of the boundary should allow 
any precip to be mainly in the liquid form, although far NW 
interior locations may begin as a wintry mix. The boundary is 
expected to move off to the east later in the weekend with drier
air and eventually colder air likely to return late in the 
weekend.

&&

.AVIATION /18Z SUNDAY THROUGH FRIDAY/...
VFR as high pressure over the area through tonight slides east 
on Mon. 

Mainly NW winds at or just under 10 kt at most terminals should
back more to the W and diminish tonight, then become SW late
tonight. SW winds then increase to around or just under 10 kt
after 14Z Mon. 

 ...NY Metro (KEWR/KLGA/KJFK/KTEB) TAF Uncertainty...

No unscheduled AMD expected.

OUTLOOK FOR 18Z MONDAY THROUGH FRIDAY...

Monday afternoon: VFR. SW winds G20kt. 

Monday night: VFR. Cold fropa early followed by W-NW winds 
G15-20kt.

Tuesday through Wednesday: VFR. NW winds 15G25kt. 

Wednesday night: VFR. NW winds G20kt in the evening. 

Thursday: VFR.

Detailed information, including hourly TAF wind component
forecasts, can be found at: https:/www.weather.gov/zny/n90

&&

.MARINE...
Conditions will remain below SCA levels through Monday, but 
winds on the ocean may approach 20 kt ahead of a cold front. 
Behind the front, NW flow increases with SCA conditions likely 
Monday night through Tuesday night. Gale potential appears low
daytime Tue into Tue night, but if the flow ends up stronger
than expected, gales could become more likely especially at
night. 

SCA cond should carry through the day Wednesday and possibly
into the evening. A period of gales are possible on the ocean on
Wed. Cond should then settle down to sub-advisory levels by
early Thu morning. 

&&

.HYDROLOGY...
There are no hydrologic concerns through the first half of next
weekend.

&&

.OKX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CT...None.
NY...None.
NJ...None.
MARINE...None.

&&

$$

SYNOPSIS...JE/DS
NEAR TERM...JM/DS
SHORT TERM...DS
LONG TERM...JE
AVIATION...BG
MARINE...JE/JM/DS
HYDROLOGY...JE/DS
