651 
FXUS61 KOKX 081455
AFDOKX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service New York NY
955 AM EST Sat Feb 8 2025

.SYNOPSIS...
High pressure over the area today moves offshore as low pressure 
approaches from the west and slides south of the area tonight. High 
pressure then builds back in on Sunday and Monday. A series of 
lows will impact the area Tuesday through Thursday. High 
pressure returns to end the week and start the weekend.

&&

.NEAR TERM /THROUGH TONIGHT/...
Just some slight adjustments made with respect to hourly
forecast temperatures, dewpoints and cloud coverage to better
match observed trends. Pushed back likely POPs for snow an hour
based on latest mesoscale model trends. Likely POPs for snow for
SW parts of region start at 22Z. Otherwise, forecast on track.

High pressure continues to move over the area today with 
generally dry conditions and light winds. The center of the high
pressure slides overhead and moves offshore into this evening 
ahead of an approaching low pressure system poised to impact the
area tonight. Highs today will be in the low to middle 30s.

Low pressure over the Ohio Valley will shift east as it strengthens. 
By evening, widespread light snow should overtake the area from west 
to east. As the frontogenetical forcing maximizes ahead of the low 
center, a more moderate to heavy snow should take over much of the 
area with the bulk of the accumulating snowfall expected to take 
place prior to midnight for much of the CWA. During this period of 
moderate to heavy snow, 1-2" per hour rates will be possible for 
much of the area, though the locations of any mesoscale bands with 
heavier snowfall will determine if any locations end up with more 
snow than anticipated.

As the low slides south of the area, its proximity to the coast will 
determine how quickly the rate of precipitation decreases or any mix 
or change over of precipitation types occurs. Models still have 
uncertainty in the strength of a warm layer which would result in 
changing p-types. Generally the thinking is that after the strongest 
forcing pushes east after midnight, drying aloft will be able to 
limit both the intensity of the precipitation and also possibly 
limit ice nuclei in the column. This combined with the potential 
warm nose moving over the area may result in a mix with sleet and 
possibly freezing rain where the warm nose is strongest, more likely 
near the coast, though possible even for the Lower Hudson Valley and 
southern Connecticut. Any mix of p-types would limit snowfall 
totals. A mix in with plain rain is possible mainly for the NYC 
metro and Long Island as the precipitation intensity decreases if 
surface temperatures warm to just above freezing, though much of the 
bulk of the precipitation would have already occurred by this point, 
mainly in the form of snow or a snow/sleet mix.

As the low pulls away from the area, some wrap around cold air may 
allow for a transition back to very light snow as precipitation 
comes to an end around or shortly after daybreak.

The forecast snowfall totals remain fairly similar to the previous 
forecast, with perhaps a slight decrease in totals along the coast. 
Generally 5-7 inches are expected for the Lower Hudson Valley and 
Southern Connecticut where Winter Storm Warnings remain in effect. A 
widespread 2-5 inches is expected across the southern half of the 
CWA from NE NJ, the NYC metro, and Long Island where Winter Weather 
Advisories remain in effect. A light glaze or a few hundredths of an 
inch of ice are possible across the CWA with the potential for some 
light freezing rain in the second half of the overnight.

&&

.SHORT TERM /SUNDAY THROUGH MONDAY NIGHT/...
The low pressure pushes offshore with high pressure building in from 
the west through the day. Skies will be gradually clearing with a 
brisk NW wind of 10-15 mph with gusts upwards of 20-25 mph. Highs 
Sunday will be in the middle to upper 30s for much of the area 
allowing for some melting of the snowpack.

THe high continues to build over the area Sunday night, Monday and 
moves overhead by Monday night. During this time, generally partly 
cloudy or mostly clear skies and dry conditions are anticipated 
with a generally light NW flow. Lows Sunday night will be in the 
teens inland and low to middle 20s along the coast. Highs on Monday 
will be a bit colder than Sunday, generally in the low to middle 
30s. Lows Monday night will be colder still with inland temperatures 
in the low teens and coastal areas in the upper teens to low
20s.Temperatures on Saturday get up into the lower/mid 30s, 
then fall into the upper 20s/lower 30s in the evening with the 
onset of snow, fluctuating little overnight.

&&

.LONG TERM /TUESDAY THROUGH FRIDAY/...
Key Points:

* Snow possible Tuesday into early Wednesday.

* Uncertainty remains high for accumulating snow Wednesday  
  through Thursday. 

* Daytime high temperatures will be below normal for much of the 
  week, with the exception of Thursday, with near normal 
  overnight low temperatures.

A fast and nearly zonal flow aloft will continue Tuesday and 
Wednesday with a more amplified trough approaching the east coast 
Thursday and passing through Thursday night. High pressure builds 
north of the region early in the long term, locking cold air in 
place for Tuesday and Wednesday. The first of a series of low 
pressure systems approach Tuesday and passes south of the area 
Tuesday night. Most of the 00z forecast guidance has suppressed this 
system further the south than previous runs, keeping the area on the 
northern fringe of the precip shield. in fact, the 00z GFS has all 
the precipitation remaining offshore, with a dry forecast for us. 
For now, will not make any drastic changes to the forecast, since, 
while the trend has been a further south progression with this 
system, most of the guidance does have some precipitation falling 
during this period. Any precipitation that does fall will be all 
snow, with enough cold air in place. With a slightly further shift 
southward, snowfall amounts remain rather uncertain. 

There may be a brief break in the precipitation later Wednesday into 
Wednesday evening, however with the uncertainty with the timing of 
the lows will maintain at least chance probabilities.
With the next low pressure system quickly approaching late 
Wednesday, and being more amplified and a deeper surface low, chances 
remain high for additional snow accumulations at least across the 
inland areas. There will be increased moisture with this system as 
the low takes a southerly track and Gulf moisture entrains. With the 
inland system and a strong southerly flow with strong warm air 
advection, frozen precipitation will likely transition to rain along 
the coast, and mixed precipitation inland. And with the warm 
advection temperatures Thursday may be near to above normal. 

High pressure and upper ridging build behind the low to end next 
week. Another low pressure system may approach late in the weekend.

&&

.AVIATION /14Z SATURDAY THROUGH WEDNESDAY/...
High pressure over the terminals will slide east this afternoon. As
low pressure moves through the Ohio Valley, a leading warm front
will approach in the evening while a secondary low develops south
of Long Island. 

VFR thru this afternoon, before light snow begins to develop at
the NYC metros/KISP by 00Z with vsbys quickly lowering to MVFR 
then IFR/LIFR. Precip should mix with or change to sleet after 
3Z. The snow/sleet transitions to freezing rain/sleet, then to 
a freezing drizzle/light snow mix into early Sunday morning.

Snow arrives at the Hudson Valley/CT terminals by 3Z, with flight 
categories also lowering quickly to IFR/LIFR. The precipitation 
should be mostly snow, with a brief period of sleet possible, 
tapering off to either light snow or freezing drizzle late. 

The low exits the region Sunday morning, with improvement expected 
toward 12z.

NW winds 10 kt or less to start backs SW this afternoon, SE this 
evening, then NE overnight. Flow goes NW as the system exits further 
into Sunday morning, becoming NW 10-15G25kt. 

Airport Snowfall accumulations:

JFK/LGA/EWR/TEB/ISP: 3-5.
HPN/SWF/BDR/GON: 5-7.

 ...NY Metro (KEWR/KLGA/KJFK/KTEB) TAF Uncertainty... 

Amendments likely this evening and overnight with changing flight 
categories. 

.OUTLOOK FOR 12Z SUNDAY THROUGH WEDNESDAY... 

Sunday: MVFR early, becoming VFR by noon. NW winds G20-25kt.

Monday: VFR.

Tuesday: Chance of snow in the afternoon, becoming likely at night. 
IFR/LIFR conditions possible. 

Wednesday: Chance of light snow/MVFR or lower cond, especially early.

Detailed information, including hourly TAF wind component forecasts, 
can be found at: https:/www.weather.gov/zny/n90

&&

&&

.MARINE...
Sub-SCA conditions are expected on all the waters through 
tonight with high pressure in control today. Low pressure moves 
over the area tonight. As high pressure builds in Sunday, waves 
on the ocean increase to near 5-7 feet and wind gusts approach 
25kt, so a SCA is in effect during the day on Sunday. Sub-SCA 
conditions then return for Sunday night through Monday night 
with high pressure overhead.

With a weak pressure gradient Tuesday into Wednesday, winds and seas 
will remain below advisory criteria across all the forecast waters. 
Then with an increasing northeast flow with low pressure impacting 
the waters Wednesday night and Thursday SCA conditions will return 
to the area waters.

&&

.HYDROLOGY...
There are no hydrologic concerns through the forecast period.

&&

.OKX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CT...Winter Storm Warning from 5 PM this afternoon to 11 AM EST 
     Sunday for CTZ005>012.
NY...Winter Storm Warning from 5 PM this afternoon to 11 AM EST 
     Sunday for NYZ067>070.
     Winter Weather Advisory from 5 PM this afternoon to 11 AM EST 
     Sunday for NYZ071>075-078>081-176>179.
NJ...Winter Storm Warning from 5 PM this afternoon to 11 AM EST 
     Sunday for NJZ002-103.
     Winter Weather Advisory from 5 PM this afternoon to 11 AM EST 
     Sunday for NJZ004-006-104>108.
MARINE...Small Craft Advisory from 7 AM Sunday to 1 AM EST Monday for 
     ANZ350-353.
     Small Craft Advisory from 7 AM to 7 PM EST Sunday for ANZ355.

&&

$$

SYNOPSIS...BC/MW
NEAR TERM...JM/MW
SHORT TERM...MW
LONG TERM...BC
AVIATION...BC/DR
MARINE...BC/MW
HYDROLOGY...BC/MW
