247 
FXUS61 KOKX 261149
AFDOKX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service New York NY
749 AM EDT Thu Jun 26 2025

.SYNOPSIS...
A cold front will drop slowly south across the area this morning
and down into the Mid Atlantic states later tonight where it will
become nearly stationary on Friday. The front will then return 
north as a warm front Friday night into Saturday. A frontal wave
and cold front attempt to push through Saturday night, and weak
high pressure builds in behind it early next week. The boundary
returns north as a warm front late Monday. A cold front then 
follows Tuesday, with high pressure returning once again mid 
next week.

&&

.NEAR TERM /THROUGH TONIGHT/...
Cold front has passed and will continue to work farther to the 
south. At the same time, the airmass will be stabilizing with a 
gradually cooler airmass filtering in from the north. Marginal 
instability this morning and some lift just north of the surface
cold front will produce scattered showers and possibly a 
thunderstorm. Of the CAMs, the HRRR is the most aggressive with 
convection developing across CT and eastern LI this morning. 
While the thumbprint is their with the other CAMs, they are 
more sparse in coverage and weaker in intensity. PW values are 
close to 2 inches in this area, so brief heavy downpours are 
possible. Overall though, not expecting much rainfall, but there
could be narrow swaths of up to an inch. 00Z SPC HREF has backed
off on any significant 1- and 3-hour rainfall rates. It is only
showing about a 10 percent chance of seeing an inch of rainfall
in 3 hours. Any shower activity will push east of the area late
this morning into early this afternoon. 

Some weak impulses at the southern edge of the westerlies may 
send additional shower activity in from the west this evening, 
but it will struggle to get too far east as high pressure 
continues to build into the area. Only expecting a 20-30 percent
chance of showers tonight. Any isolated thunderstorms will be 
limited to NYC and points west early. These should be weak and 
dissipate quickly. Otherwise, expect mostly cloudy skies during
this time.

High temperatures for the day will actually occur before
daybreak, but this afternoon should see temperatures in the
upper 70s to possibly the lower 80s. Lows tonight will be in the
60s. Neither of which are too far off from normal. In addition,
dew points will drop through the 60s today and into the mid 50s
to around 60 tonight.

&&

.SHORT TERM /FRIDAY THROUGH SATURDAY/...
It remains unsettled during this time and cool as the area will
be under the influence of high pressure ridging down along the 
New England coast. It will gradually retreat Friday night into 
Saturday as the stationary front to the south returns northward
as a warm front. The chance of showers remains low through 
Saturday morning. However, as the warm front draws closer to the
area, the airmass will begin to gradually destabilize with dew 
points rising through the 60s to around 70. There remains some 
uncertainty as to whether the warm front gets to the north of 
the area on Saturday, but a consensus approach would suggest it 
stalls in close proximity as a frontal wave approaches from the
west. The latter of which will result in increasing chances of 
showers and thunderstorms toward the late afternoon/evening.

Due to the uncertainty in the frontal location on Saturday, the
temperature forecast will be a challenge. The NBM deterministic
during this time is skewed toward the 25th percentile for highs.
Much of the area is showing about 10 degree range from the 25th
to 75th percentiles. Thus, while cooler temperatures are in the
forecast, Saturday in particular is a lower confidence forecast.
Should the warm front get through, it would be a warmer day.

&&

.LONG TERM /SATURDAY NIGHT THROUGH WEDNESDAY/...
Behind a frontal passage Saturday night, briefly turning quieter for 
the second half of the weekend with weak ridging and surface high 
pressure attempting to build in as the boundary that moved through 
stalls to the south over the Mid Atlantic.

Any lingering rain looks to taper Sunday morning, and allow for a 
predominantly dry day, that could persist thru much of Monday as 
well. Eventually, the stalled boundary to the south looks to return 
back north as a digging trough over the Great Lakes presses east. 
This will reintroduce wet weather late Monday and Monday night as 
the warm front lifts through. Showers and thunderstorms possible 
ahead of the trailing cold frontal passage, progged sometime 
Tuesday. In its wake, cooler and drier conditions by mid next week 
as high pressure returns.

&&

.AVIATION /12Z THURSDAY THROUGH MONDAY/...
A cold front pushes further south of the region through the 
day, with high pressure off to the north.

Mainly VFR. Brief MVFR cigs/vsbys possible this morning, mainly
KISP or KGON with SHRA pushing east. Spotty shower or tstorm 
possible elsewhere thru the day, but largely dry until increasing
chances in the evening and first part of the night after 00Z 
Fri. Cigs lower toward MVFR early Fri AM, improving by late 
morning.

NE flow becomes this morning with speeds around 10 kt, before 
veers more easterly and increases up to 15 kt. Occasional gusts
toward 20 kt possible both this morning and afternoon.

 ...NY Metro (KEWR/KLGA/KJFK/KTEB) TAF Uncertainty...

Occasional 20 kt gusts possible thru the day.

.OUTLOOK FOR 12Z FRIDAY THROUGH MONDAY... 

Friday through Sunday: MVFR or lower possible. Chance of showers.

Monday: Mainly VFR.

Detailed information, including hourly TAF wind component forecasts, 
can be found at: https:/www.weather.gov/zny/n90

&&

.MARINE...
SCA has been issued for the ocean waters tonight into Friday due
to a strengthening easterly flow with gusts to around 25 kt and
seas building to 4 to 7 ft. Occasional 25 kt gusts will be 
possible today as seas build to around 4 ft. Winds and seas will
then diminish Friday night as the gradient weakens across the 
area. 

Waters are forecast to largely remain below Small Craft Advisory 
(SCA) criteria late this weekend through mid next week.

&&

.HYDROLOGY...
Localized heavy downpours may be possible across the area this
morning, especially eastern LI and SE CT. Minor nuisance poor
drainage flooding is possible.

&&

.TIDES/COASTAL FLOODING...
Persistent E flow after a cold frontal passage will lead to 
widespread minor coastal flooding in NY Harbor, the back bays of
S Queens/Nassau, Peconic Bay, and the Westchester/SW CT 
coastline with the this evening's high tide cycle.

Coastal Flood Advisory is in effect for up to a foot of
inundation along the shoreline of the back bays of S
Queens/Nassau/Brooklyn, as well as along the western LI Sound 
in Westchester and Fairfield in SW CT. A Coastal Flood Statement
has been issued for up to a half foot of inundation along the 
vulnerable areas along the Peconic and Shinnecock Bays, as well 
as portions of the Lower NY Harbor.

Additional minor coastal flooding is possible again during
Friday evening's high tide, though water levels should begin to
come down slightly.

There is a moderate rip current risk for both Thursday and
Friday due to a building E swell and east to west sweep along
the Atlantic beachfront.

&&

.OKX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CT...Coastal Flood Advisory from 11 PM this evening to 3 AM EDT 
     Friday for CTZ009.
NY...Coastal Flood Advisory from 11 PM this evening to 3 AM EDT 
     Friday for NYZ071.
     Coastal Flood Advisory from 8 PM this evening to midnight EDT 
     tonight for NYZ074-075-178-179.
NJ...None.
MARINE...Small Craft Advisory from 6 PM this evening to 6 PM EDT Friday 
     for ANZ350-353-355.

&&

$$

SYNOPSIS...DR/DW
NEAR TERM...DW
SHORT TERM...DW
LONG TERM...DR
AVIATION...DR
MARINE...DR/DW
HYDROLOGY...DR/DW
TIDES/COASTAL FLOODING...
