794 
FXUS61 KOKX 100941
AFDOKX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service New York NY
541 AM EDT Sat May 10 2025

.SYNOPSIS...
High pressure builds in today and remains in control through 
Sunday. Then a weak cold front passes on Sunday with high 
pressure gradually moving offshore Sunday night through Monday 
night, still remaining in control through much of Tuesday. 
Unsettled weather returns the rest of next week as a slow, broad
low pressure system approaches from the south.

&&

.NEAR TERM /UNTIL 6 PM THIS EVENING/...
An upper-level low can be seen spinning over eastern New York
into Massachusetts this morning on water vapor imagery. At the 
surface, the low is easy to distinguish by looking at the wind 
direction. This places the center of the low near Rhode Island. 
It continues to exit east and north.

As the surface low and the upper-low both exit towards New England, 
cloud cover with gradually decrease through the morning. Its likely 
we see plenty of sunshine by the afternoon, but some areas of 
southern Connecticut may still hold onto some clouds into the 
afternoon, not losing them until the evening. 

Light showers and drizzle will also be ending this morning with
the departure of the low. Some slight chances for light showers
and drizzle may linger in southern Connecticut on the backside 
of the exiting low until midday today. 

As the low exits northeast, surface high pressure gradually builds 
with heights slowly rising aloft. The pressure gradient will be 
increased later this morning into the early evening, leading to 
breezy NW flow. This may lead to some downslope compression with 850 
mb temps also warming aloft. The flow will be strong enough to beat 
back any sea breezes. Highs look to be in the upper-60s to mid-70s 
for all.

&&

.SHORT TERM /6 PM THIS EVENING THROUGH MONDAY NIGHT/...
Heights will continually rise tonight through Monday as a ridge 
gradually approaches from the west. At the same time, a mid-level 
low will be situated over the Gulf States, leaving us on the east 
side of a Rex block pattern. This should leave us in a dry and sunny 
pattern through Monday. High pressure remains at the surface through 
this timeframe, as well, with winds remaining light under a weak 
pressure gradient. 

An upper-level trough passes far to our north/northeast in Canada on 
Sunday, which may help bring a weak cold front to the area, but this 
won't do much for us given dry air in place. 

Monday night, the rex block looks to break down with the low to our 
southwest finally breaking through the ridge to its north and 
approaching our area Monday night. This may lead to increasing cloud 
cover towards daybreak Tuesday. Otherwise, we should remain dry 
through Monday night. 

High temperatures remain primarily at or above average through the 
period with highs in the upper-60s to mid-70s. Lows will depart a 
little more from average through. Saturday night will see lows in 
the mid-50s to mid-40s, which is about average. But due to the weak 
cold front, lows may drop into the low-40s in the interior on Sunday 
night. Then as a low approaches to our southwest, lows Monday night 
will only drop to the mid-50s to low-60s.

&&

.LONG TERM /TUESDAY THROUGH FRIDAY/...
High pressure is positioned to the east of the area on Tuesday as a 
large upper level cut-off low over the Southern US begins to 
approach the area from the south. Mid-level ridging should remain in 
place during much of the day on Tuesday which should allow for the 
area to remain mainly dry, though some showers may begin to approach 
the area from the southwest as the impacts of the cutoff low begin 
to be felt.

By Wednesday and through much of the remainder of the week, a weak 
broad surface low pressure under the mid-level low will impact the 
area with scattered showers under a general S/SE flow. The low will 
slowly meander over the East Coast before eventually pushing 
offshore sometime late in the week and into the weekend. There 
doesn't look to be much instability so thunderstorms remain unlikely 
at this time. While the second half of the week is not expected to 
be a washout, overcast skies will persist with scattered showers 
possible through the weekend. A more organized frontal system may 
approach from the west into the weekend which may bring another 
round of showers.

Temperatures should remain fairly seasonable with highs each day in 
the upper 60s to middle 70s and lows each night in the middle 50s to 
lower 60s.

&&

.AVIATION /10Z SATURDAY THROUGH WEDNESDAY/...
Low pressure over the area will track slowly east this morning with
gradually improving conditions.

Conditions will gradually improve over the next several hours
with much of the NYC metro VFR already. While some reductions 
back to MVFR remain possible through the morning push, generally
improving categories are expected from west to east through the
morning. Eastern terminals may not improve to VFR until after 
daybreak and into the late morning or early afternoon, 
specifically for KGON.

There will be also be widely scattered showers into the morning
hours as the upper low moves across the area. The best chance 
will across the CT terminals and KSWF.

Winds out of the WNW at 10kt will gradually ramp up toward 
daybreak, increasing to 15 to 20kt with G25-30kt by mid to late 
morning. 

     ...NY Metro (KEWR/KLGA/KJFK/KTEB) TAF Uncertainty...

Timing of improving flight categories tonight could be off by 
2-3 hours. 

A few gusts may exceed 30 kt on Saturday.

.OUTLOOK FOR 09Z SUNDAY THROUGH WEDNESDAY...

Saturday Night: VFR with diminishing W/NW winds. 

Sunday through Tuesday: VFR.

Wednesday: MVFR or lower possible in showers.

Detailed information, including hourly TAF wind component forecasts, 
can be found at: https:/www.weather.gov/zny/n90

&&

.MARINE...
A SCA is up on ocean waters through late this afternoon for 5 ft
waves and gusty NW winds. A SCA is up through late this
afternoon on non-ocean waters for gusty NW winds. Winds and seas
diminish into tonight. Sub-SCA conditions are then expected
through Monday night. 

Sub-SCA conditions are expected on all waters through Tuesday night. 
Marginal SCA conditions become possible under an increasing S/SE 
flow as the pressure gradient tightens with the approach of a weak 
frontal system from the southwest. Gusts may approach 25kt on the 
ocean with wave heights near 5 feet possible.

&&

.HYDROLOGY...
There are no hydrologic concerns through through the end of 
next week.

&&

.OKX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CT...None.
NY...None.
NJ...None.
MARINE...Small Craft Advisory until 6 PM EDT this evening for ANZ331-
     332-335-338-340-345.
     Small Craft Advisory until 6 PM EDT this evening for ANZ350-
     353-355.

&&

$$

SYNOPSIS...BR/MW
NEAR TERM...BR
SHORT TERM...BR
LONG TERM...MW
AVIATION...MW
MARINE...BR/MW
HYDROLOGY...BR/MW
