682 
FXUS61 KOKX 210108
AFDOKX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service New York NY
908 PM EDT Sun Jul 20 2025

.SYNOPSIS...
A cold front will move across the region this evening. High 
pressure builds in Monday into Tuesday, and centers over the 
area Tuesday night into Wednesday. The high shifts offshore 
Wednesday night into Thursday. A low passing into east Quebec 
Friday will bring through a cold front late Friday into Friday 
night.

&&

.NEAR TERM /UNTIL 6 AM MONDAY MORNING/...
The severe thunderstorm watch has expired for CT with the 
threat for damaging winds ending. There is still a broken line
of showers and embedded thunderstorms across southern CT
stretching down to the forks of Long Island, with a outflow
boundary pushing slowly westward from this activity. The
showers/embedded storms may continue pushing south the next few
hours, but should largely end or push offshore around 03z. 

Otherwise, the cold front, should slide east by midnight, with 
a much cooler and drier airmass filtered in behind the cold 
front on gusty NW flow. Lows tonight in the lower 60s interior, 
to around 70 for the city/coast, with Tds dropping into the 
lower 60s by daybreak.

&&

.SHORT TERM /6 AM MONDAY MORNING THROUGH TUESDAY NIGHT/...
Polar trough/closed low slides into northern New England Monday
and then slides east through SE Canada Mon NIght. Mean 
troughing and NW flow aloft continues through Tuesday Night.

At the surface, initial cold front slides well east of the area
by Monday morning, with reinforcing Canadian cold front passing
through Mon aft/eve. 

A relatively tight gradient between developing Canadian 
Maritimes low and Canadian high pressure over Ontario, will have
a gusty caa NW flow 15-20g25 mph developing tonight and 
continue on Monday, remaining gusty into Monday Night. Highs on 
Monday expected to run slightly below seasonable despite 
abundant sunshine, with CAA through the day dropping 850 mb 
temps into the high single digits. Highs in the lower to mid 80s
for the coast, to upper 70s for interior, with Tds likely 
dropping into the 40s to lower 50s.

Potential for some radiational cooling conds across far 
outlying areas, but pressure gradient may be strong enough to 
keep temps from bottoming. Very comfortable temps in the 50s to 
lower 60s, but a few upper 40s possible across interior and pine
barrens if a period radiational cooling materializes. 

Canadian high pressure continues to sink SE over the region 
Tuesday into Tuesday Night, with temps running a few degrees 
below seasonable for late July. High in the upper 70s to lower 
80s area-wide with Tds in the 40s to around 50. Potential for 
more robust radiational cooling Tuesday NIght, with widespread 
lows in the 50s outside of the urban centers, and possibly a 
few upper 40s across interior and pine barrens.

&&

.LONG TERM /WEDNESDAY THROUGH SUNDAY/...
Key Messages:

 * Dry Wed through Thu night. 

 * Showers & thunderstorms possible with cold front Fri/Fri night 
then again from the front stalling to the south late on Sat.

 * Temps climb Wed into Thu. Heat index may exceed 100 by Fri. 

In the upper-levels, a ridge continues to amplify over the eastern 
US Wednesday into Wednesday night. This ridge then flattens Thursday 
into Thursday night. A series of midlevel shortwaves then pass 
Friday into the weekend. 

At the surface, high pressure remains the dominant feature centered 
over the area on Wednesday. This high then shifts offshore Wednesday 
night into Thursday. A low passing into east Quebec Friday moves 
into the North Atlantic Friday night into Saturday. This low brings 
through a cold front late Friday into Friday night. The cold front 
then stalls south of the area into Saturday.

Wednesday through Friday, temperatures will warm each day in 
response to the high moving east and higher heights aloft. Heat 
index values may exceed 95 on Thursday for parts of the area and 
even near 100 in select locations, then exceed 100 for large 
portions of the area on Friday with some spots exceeding 105. This 
means we should see solid heat advisory criteria on Friday with heat 
warning criteria possibly being met in some areas. The heat, while 
lower, will still be strong into Saturday.

Given ample heating, shortwave energy passing aloft, high dewpoints 
& atmospheric moisture, and lift from an approaching/passing cold 
front, scattered showers and thunderstorms are expected late Friday 
into early Friday night. Showers and thunderstorms will again be 
possible Saturday afternoon into early early Saturday night due to 
the front stalled nearby to the south with another shortwave passing 
aloft.

&&

.AVIATION /01Z MONDAY THROUGH FRIDAY/...
A cold front will move across the region this evening. High
pressure builds into the area on Monday. 

Mainly VFR conditions through the TAF period, with the exception
of sub-VFR in any showers or thunderstorms, mainly east of NYC.
These storms are expected to exit the region between 01-02z. 

S-SW winds to start around 10-15kt at the NYC terminals, and
less than 10kt elsewhere. Winds become NW behind the cold front
10-13kt with G20kt for city terminals overnight, with gusts 
less likely or more occasional for outlying terminals. NW gusts 
prevail at all terminals towards 13-14z on Monday. 

 ...NY Metro (KEWR/KLGA/KJFK/KTEB) TAF Uncertainty...

Winds gusts may be occasional overnight. 

.OUTLOOK FOR 00Z TUESDAY THROUGH FRIDAY... 

Monday night through Thursday: VFR. 

Friday: VFR likely through morning, possibly followed by periods of 
sub VFR in showers and thunderstorms for the afternoon and
evening.

Detailed information, including hourly TAF wind component forecasts, 
can be found at: https:/www.weather.gov/zny/n90

&&

.MARINE...
Occasional nearshore gusts to 25 kt possible late tonight thru 
Monday evening in a gusty NW flow behind cold frontal passage.

Otherwise, winds and waves are expected to stay below Small Craft 
Advisory criteria late Monday Night through Wednesday Night as 
high pressure moves overhead. 

Winds may approach SCA gusts on waters both late Thursday a and then 
again late Friday with the cold front.

&&

.HYDROLOGY...
At this time, there are no hydrologic concerns through the week.

&&

.TIDES/COASTAL FLOODING...
A low rip current development risk is expected for all ocean 
beaches on Monday with a moisture of mainly 1 ft S/SE swells. 
Similarly a low rip current development risk is likely for 
Tuesday with developing 2 ft easterly wind wave and a series of 
1 ft S/SE swells. With that said, with a large tidal range due 
to an approaching new moon, rip development could be moderate a 
couple of hours either side of low tide. 

In addition, water levels may touch minor flood thresholds 
across the most vulnerable NY Harbor, southern and eastern 
NYC/LI bay, and W LI sound, locations during the evening high 
tide the next few days.

&&

.OKX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CT...None.
NY...None.
NJ...None.
MARINE...None.

&&

$$

SYNOPSIS...BR/NV
NEAR TERM...DS/NV
SHORT TERM...NV
LONG TERM...BR
AVIATION...BC
MARINE...BR/NV
HYDROLOGY...BR/NV
TIDES/COASTAL FLOODING...
