714 
FXUS61 KOKX 271034
AFDOKX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service New York NY
634 AM EDT Thu Mar 27 2025

.SYNOPSIS...
High pressure builds of the area today and then moves offshore
tonight. A cold front approaches tonight and moves south towards
the area early Friday before moving back north as a warm front
Friday night into Saturday. The front moves back towards the area
Saturday night. This complex frontal system remains near the area
Sunday and Monday, before finally sliding east Monday night. High
pressure will build from the northwest on Tuesday. A frontal 
system from the west may begin to impact the area next Wednesday.

&&

.NEAR TERM /UNTIL 6 PM THIS EVENING/...
Forecast on track. Mostly clear sky conditions present this
morning. Recent hourly temperatures comparing forecast to 
observed within a few degrees of each other.

High pressure builds south of the area with center moving towards 
the North Carolina coast. Slight negative pressure tendency across 
local region. A cold front moves into Great Lakes.

Despite lots of sunshine, a cooler than normal day is expected
with the westerly flow.

Westerly flow expected during the day. Gusts expected,
especially this afternoon and raised wind gust forecast above 
initial NBM values.

Max temperatures generally upper 40s to lower 50s.

&&

.SHORT TERM /6 PM THIS EVENING THROUGH SATURDAY NIGHT/...
Jet stream upper level situated well north of the area. Overall,
on average, ridging in the mid levels. Not much in the way of
rainfall. Mainly dry with a warming trend for the airmass.

The high pressure area moves east and off the coast of North 
Carolina and out into Atlantic tonight. Cold front from Great 
Lakes approaches the region and eventually moves south into 
early Friday. Weak high pressure moves in briefly for Friday 
afternoon. 

The front will be moving farther north Friday afternoon through
Saturday as a warm front before potentially pushing back south
Saturday night.

Lows for tonight use a combination of MET/MAV/NBM/NBM 50th
percentile, more weight with NBM and NBM 50 percentile 
relatively warmer. Wanted relatively warmer values along coast 
because of partial onshore flow.

Mesoscale models depict some shower activity late tonight. 
Slight chance to chance POPs. Cold enough for snow showers
tonight for more northern locations, rain/snow shower mix along
coast. More shower activity potentially Friday night into early
Saturday and again for late Saturday into Saturday night. Those
will be with a warmer ambient airmass so just rain showers.

Temperatures forecast on a rising trend, especially Friday into
Saturday with model 850mb temperatures showing an increase of
around 6 to 7 degrees C. Used NBM 50th percentile for Friday and
Saturday high temperatures, which were pretty consistent with
the previous forecast. Upper 50s to lower 60s Friday and lower
70s to lower 80s for Saturday are the range of high temperature
forecast for much of the region.

&&

.LONG TERM /SUNDAY THROUGH WEDNESDAY/...
Unsettled conditions continue Sunday through Monday night as a 
complex frontal system remains over the region. 

The long term period starts off with a frontal boundary south of the 
region. NBM temps from the mid 50s across the eastern portion of the 
region east to lower 60s to the west may be a few degrees too warm 
with a cool E-SE flow across the region. 

The front is forecast to lift closer to the area Sunday night and 
lift north of the area Monday morning. A mostly cloudy day is 
forecast which should limit highs to the upper 50s and lower 60s to 
the east and mid 60s to lower 70s to the west. However any afternoon 
peeks of sun could easily lead to temps several deg warmer than 
that. 

Cold front approaches on Monday and moves across the area Monday 
night will be followed by below normal temps for Tue-Wed next week. 
Expect drier conditions on Tuesday and most of Wednesday. Another 
approaching frontal system late Wednesday could bring a cold rain, 
even some wet snow mixing in across the interior. 

Overall forecast confidence is below average through the entire long 
term period with multiple questions around frontal boundary 
positioning.

&&

.AVIATION /12Z THURSDAY THROUGH MONDAY/...
High pressure builds south of the area today.

VFR. WNW winds expected to continue around 10 kt or less early this 
morning. An occasional gust to 20kt can't be ruled out.

The WNW winds persist today with gusts once again into the 20-24kt 
range. Wind then shifts more SW and lessen into the evening.

 ...NY Metro (KEWR/KLGA/KJFK/KTEB) TAF Uncertainty... 

Gusts to 20-25kt may be more occasional today. 

.OUTLOOK FOR 06Z FRIDAY THROUGH MONDAY...

Thursday night: VFR.

Friday: VFR.

Saturday: VFR during the day, MVFR possible at night. SW winds G20-
25kt. 

Sunday: MVFR or lower possible in light rain. E-SE wind G15-20kt. 

Monday: MVFR/VFR with showers possible. S-SW winds G20kt, becoming 
NW at night. 

Detailed information, including hourly TAF wind component forecasts, 
can be found at: https:/www.weather.gov/zny/n90

&&

.MARINE...
Ocean seas already right near 5 ft for southeast of Montauk.
Expecting rest of ocean to get more in SCA range due to wind
gusts this afternoon and tonight. This will linger into Friday
morning. Non-ocean waters will also have SCA level gusts late
tonight into Friday morning. SCAs have been issued for all but
NY Harbor and Western LI Sound.

After a brief lull in waves and wind gusts Friday afternoon and
Friday night, expecting a trend up for these parameters for the
weekend.

Small craft conditions appear to be likely this weekend and 
into early next week as a frontal system moves across the area 
waters. Low pressure offshore may keep seas elevated for the 
first half of next week.

&&

.FIRE WEATHER...
Mainly dry conditions expected to continue over the next few
days. Gusty westerly flow this afternoon and early Friday is
forecast. Gusty southwesterly flow expected for Saturday.

Some elevated fire spread potential for today with combination
of low RH and gusty winds. This will be somewhat mitigated for
Friday and Saturday with possible shower activity the prior
night into early morning.

Special weather statements for elevated risk of fire spread have
been issued, which considers meteorological, fuel, and land 
conditions and has been developed in coordination with state 
fire and land management officials.

&&

.HYDROLOGY...
Less than a half inch of rain total with showers forecast 
through Saturday night.

No hydrologic impacts are expected through the upcoming weekend.

&&

.OKX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CT...None.
NY...None.
NJ...None.
MARINE...Small Craft Advisory from 3 AM to 10 AM EDT Friday for ANZ331-
     332-340-345.
     Small Craft Advisory until noon EDT Friday for ANZ350.
     Small Craft Advisory from 2 PM this afternoon to noon EDT 
     Friday for ANZ353.
     Small Craft Advisory from 1 AM to 10 AM EDT Friday for ANZ355.

&&

$$

SYNOPSIS...BC/JM
NEAR TERM...JM
SHORT TERM...JM
LONG TERM...BC
AVIATION...BC
MARINE...BC/JM
FIRE WEATHER...JM
HYDROLOGY...BC/JM
