547 
FXUS61 KOKX 011839
AFDOKX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service New York NY
239 PM EDT Sun Jun 1 2025

.SYNOPSIS...
As high pressure gradually tries to build in from the south and 
west, a few more surface troughs move through today and Tuesday.
High pressure remains offshore Wednesday. A cold front will 
slowly approach the area during the end of the week.

&&

.NEAR TERM /THROUGH TONIGHT/...
Low pressure continues to depart to the northeast leading to a 
weakening pressure gradient. As high pressure tries to build in from 
the south and west, a few more lingering surface troughs will swing 
through. Aloft, a trough remains over the area and can be seen quite 
well looking at just visible/GeoColor satellite imagery given smoke 
from Canadian wildfires in the upper levels.

A shortwave rotating through the base of the trough will move 
towards the area this evening. There is not a ton of moisture 
available, but given the consistent hint from the CAMs and what is 
going on upstream currently, have continued to leave the 
mention of slight chance showers in the forecast.

With the weakening pressure gradient, winds weaken tonight. There 
will likely be some clouds around given the passing shortwave, but 
confidence is low in the exact extent of cloud cover. This leads to 
a bit of an uncertain low temperature forecast. Went with a blend of 
MOS and NBM for now, but cloud cover trends will have to be 
monitored and adjustments to temperatures may be needed.

The aforementioned smoke is expected to remain aloft and not make it 
to the surface at this time. This may result in milky looking skies 
as times and lead to some filtered sunshine.

&&

.SHORT TERM /MONDAY THROUGH TUESDAY/...
Troughing aloft continues to influence the area through Monday as 
the axis doesn't pass through until Monday evening. However, thinking 
that cloud cover will be lower than today leading to mostly sunny 
skies and no chances of rain. Highs looks to be right around normal 
or a degree or two lower. With the weak pressure gradient and water 
temps still in the upper 50s there will be enough of a water-land
temperature difference for a sea breeze circulation. This 
likely keeps areas along the immediate coast a few degrees 
cooler.

High pressure finally establishes itself over the area a bit more on 
Tuesday, as heights aloft rise with a building mid and upper level 
ridge. This will be the start of a warmer stretch of weather. Sunny 
and dry with highs in the mid 70s to low 80s on Tuesday.

&&

.LONG TERM /TUESDAY NIGHT THROUGH SATURDAY/...
An upr ridge over the region will produce warm wx thru most of the 
extended. A strong warming trend kicks in Wed, with Thu the hottest 
day attm per the latest progs. The latest modeling suggests a slowly 
approaching cold front Thu, washing out over the area on Fri 
allowing temps to recharge.  Shwrs and tstms possible late Thu with 
the front and falling heights, then chances again Fri with the 
residual boundary. SW flow aloft may limit extensive aftn and eve 
development with the best dynamics W of the cwa, but low confidence 
this far out. A stronger front with the main upr trof arrives on Sat 
with more chances for shwrs and tstms. Could be some robust 
development if the timing occurs during peak heating. NBM temps may 
be too low Fri and especially Sat ahead of the main front.

&&

.AVIATION /18Z SUNDAY THROUGH FRIDAY/...
VFR as a weak sfc trough approaches the terminals. SCT-
BKN040-060 through the evening.

WSW winds 15-20ktG20-25kt, becoming SW for south coastal 
terminals in the afternoon. W winds and gusts subsiding around
00Z. Winds become light and variable tonight before increasing 
near daybreak W/NW 5-10kts. Local sea breezes possible for 
JFK/ISP/LGA tomorrow afternoon after 21Z.

 ...NY Metro (KEWR/KLGA/KJFK/KTEB) TAF Uncertainty... 

W wind gusts 20-25kt subsiding near 00Z. Time may be off 1-2
hrs.

Spotty shower or sprinkle possible late this afternoon into
early this evening. Confidence too low to mention in TAF at 
this time.

.OUTLOOK FOR 12Z MONDAY THROUGH THURSDAY... 

Monday through Wednesday...VFR.

Thursday...Potential for MVFR in showers and thunderstorms in
the afternoon/evening.

Friday...Possible MVFR in afternoon showers/tstms.

&&

.MARINE...
A Small Craft Advisory remains in effect for all non ocean waters 
and the western ocean zone until 6PM for 25 kt wind gusts, but may 
be able to come down before that. The central and eastern ocean zone 
Small Craft Advisory goes through this evening for lingering 5 ft 
seas.

A weak pressure gradient thereafter through Tuesday will result in 
sub-SCA conditions.

Winds and waves generally continue blw sca lvls Wed-Fri. There 
could be some pockets of higher winds and seas on the ocean 
resulting in cond near sca criteria at times. A frontal sys may 
impact the waters on Sat, with sca seas modeled on the ocean 
attm.

&&

.HYDROLOGY...
There are no hydrologic concerns through next weekend.

&&

.TIDES/COASTAL FLOODING...
Lingering S/SE swell gives a high risk of rip currents through
the rest of today. There is a moderate risk for Monday.

&&

.OKX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CT...None.
NY...High Risk for Rip Currents until 9 PM EDT this evening for NYZ080-
     081.
NJ...None.
MARINE...Small Craft Advisory until 6 PM EDT this evening for ANZ331-
     332-335-338-340-345-355.
     Small Craft Advisory until 10 PM EDT this evening for ANZ350-
     353.

&&

$$

SYNOPSIS...JMC/JT
NEAR TERM...JT
SHORT TERM...JT
LONG TERM...JMC
AVIATION...DBR
MARINE...JMC/JT
HYDROLOGY...JMC/JT
TIDES/COASTAL FLOODING...JT
