661 
FXUS61 KOKX 040313
AFDOKX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service New York NY
1113 PM EDT Thu Apr 3 2025

.SYNOPSIS...
A warm front will move across and eventually north of the 
region into this evening. A cold front then slowly moves 
through tonight into Friday. The frontal boundary stalls, then 
returns north as a warm front and pushes through Saturday into 
Saturday night. The trailing cold front pushes through Sunday, 
followed by weak low pressure tracking nearby along the boundary
on Monday. High pressure builds for mid week before pushing 
offshore by late Thursday.

&&

.NEAR TERM /UNTIL 6 AM FRIDAY MORNING/...
Visibilities have improved considerably across the entire
forecast area, and fog was taken out of the forecast for the
remainder of the night. Though visibilities may be reduced later
when showers move through. Also, lowered chance for
precipitation over the next several hours as there is lack of
any returns on the radar as of 11 pm, and current HRRR shows not
much until an hour or so before sunrise Friday. Therefore, also
lowered precipitation amounts over the next several hours. And,
while a passing thunderstorm is still possible, thinking is that
much of any thunderstorm activity passes to the south, so took
mention of thunder and heavy rain out of the forecast. Finally,
there is a strong temperature gradient across the area, even
within just a few miles. For example, JFK was 57 degrees, while
Central Park was 72 as of 11 pm. This is thanks to the
southwesterly flow, keeping conditions warm across portions of
NYC (away from the ocean) and points north and west, while the
relatively cooler flow off the ocean for Long Island and SE CT
keep these areas in the 50s.


Warm front expected to move farther north and eventually north 
of the entire area tonight. A weakening cold front moves in 
late tonight. 

For tonight, expecting SW winds to decrease with a cold front
moving in. This cold front is weakening as it moves in as parent
low pressure fills in across Southeast Canada.

Expecting the fog to linger around especially across Southern CT
and Long Island. In addition, while the frontal forcing is weak,
mid level positive vorticity advection with smaller embedded
shortwave moves in. Upper level jet streak also moves north of
the area with its right rear quad getting close to the region
late tonight. This will enhance lift and with some ambient low 
level instability, a few thunderstorms will be possible.

The convective coverage this evening is isolated to scattered at
most with convection being mostly south of Long Island where
greater instability will be located. The chances for showers
expand across the entire region late tonight, becoming likely, 
with a slight chance of thunderstorms as well. Lows will not 
have a wide range, just upper 40s to mid 50s. 

Some drier air behind the cold front will allow for fog to
become less expansive by early Friday. The rain increasing will
also help mix out the low levels, allowing for fog to breakup.

&&

.SHORT TERM /6 AM FRIDAY MORNING THROUGH FRIDAY NIGHT/...
With slight ridging aloft and upper jet staying north of the
area, the weak cold front moving through will slow down south of
the region. Not much steering flow.

Rain showers chances decrease Friday morning with drier air
coming in on a NW flow. With weakening pressure gradient, do not
expect much in the way of gusty winds. Some gusts near 15 to 20
mph along coast. High temperatures a blend of MAV and MET MOS, 
mainly in the low to mid 60s. Clouds overcast to start with some
more breaks of sun for afternoon.

Friday night, increasing clouds from west to east as frontal
boundary to the south moves north as a warm front. Might even
have some light rain developing with isentropic lift late
heading into early Saturday morning. However, expecting much of
the night to be dry. 

Some radiational cooling with light winds Friday evening before
clouds increase, so have lows ranging from upper 30s to upper
40s.

&&

.LONG TERM /SATURDAY THROUGH THURSDAY/...
An Atlantic seaboard and Western Atlantic ridge will give way to a 
longwave trough during the period. Weak shortwave energy along with 
a warm front, then a cold front along with a wave of low pressure 
should bring rounds of unsettled weather for much of the weekend. As 
the longwave trough sets up in the east, shortwave energy may impact 
the area on Monday, and maybe towards the tail end of the period 
late Thursday, at least according to the GFS and the EC-AIFS. Other 
NWP guidance suggests it remains dry through the day Thursday.

A warm front should lift northeast and through the region to begin 
the weekend. The timing of the warm front passing through remains in 
question, but model consensus is suggestive that the warm front 
lifts through Saturday night. Ahead of the warm front look for light 
rain, with perhaps a few moderate bouts during the day. As the warm 
front presses in look for a higher probability of fog across the 
region with some possible reduced visibilities into the day and 
early evening. The area should get into the warm sector, albeit 
briefly late Saturday night and into Sunday morning with a warmer 
WSW flow regime. The cold front will then push through sometime 
Sunday afternoon / early evening. The winds will turn to the W, then 
NW for Sunday night. The question is how far south does the cold 
frontal boundary get late Sunday and Sunday night. NWP consensus has 
the front remaining close enough to the region that the next impulse 
moves up along the boundary in response to shortwave energy, and 
higher PoPs coming back in for at least late in the day Sunday and 
Sunday night. During Monday the boundary is progged to get just off 
the coast, with PoPs for now confined to mainly eastern portions of 
the area.

With the upper level trough pivoting through and some instability 
and a cold pool aloft have kept low end chance minimal PoPs for 
Monday night into Tuesday. A rather chilly Canadian based cP air 
mass will build for the mid week. Temperatures are expected to get 
below normal Tuesday night into Wednesday. Wind chill readings by 
late Tuesday night / early Wednesday morning may get down into 20s 
region wide with actual air temperatures near or below freezing 
across the entire area. Temperatures during the day Wednesday will 
struggle to get out of the 40s despite April sun. Another chilly 
wake up is anticipated for Thursday with the high settling over the 
area and a good radiational cooling set up anticipated. The high 
should then start to get further east on Thursday with a return flow 
setting up at the tail end of the period.

&&

.AVIATION /03Z FRIDAY THROUGH TUESDAY/...
A cold front will move across late tonight with high pressure
building in for Friday.

All terminals have improved to VFR. Showers move in tonight in
association with the cold front after 04Z. With conditions 
considerably improved and guidance suggesting minimal impact 
with the showers in regards to flight categories, have kept VFR 
in the forecast. However, brief MVFR conditions with the showers
overnight is still possible, mainly for clouds.

SW winds this evening 10 kt or less shift to the NW 5-10 kt 
with cold fropa late tonight and increase to either side of 10 
kt Fri morning. Occasional gusts possible early afternoon on 
Friday to 20 kt, but did not look frequent enough to include in 
TAFs. 

 ...NY Metro (KEWR/KLGA/KJFK/KTEB) TAF Uncertainty...

Generally a VFR forecast, but brief MVFR possible with showers 
that move through after 04Z. Therefore, amendments are 
possible, especially after 04Z.

.OUTLOOK FOR 00Z SATURDAY THROUGH MONDAY...

Friday Night: VFR. 

Saturday: Showers likely. MVFR to IFR expected in the afternoon and 
at night. SE winds G15-20kt. 

Sunday: Chance of showers. Any IFR cond early should become MVFR. 
SW winds G15-20kt. 

Monday: Chance of showers with MVFR/IFR cond possible.

Tuesday: VFR. WNW winds G20-25kt. 

Detailed information, including hourly TAF wind component forecasts, 
can be found at: https:/www.weather.gov/zny/n90

&&

.MARINE...
The warm front lifts north of the waters into this evening.

Visibilities have improved to greater than 1 NM on all waters,
and the Dense Fog Advisory that was in effect has been
cancelled.

Winds trend down eventually below SCA levels tonight and remain
below SCA levels Friday through Friday night. Ocean SCA seas 
still expected into Friday, with Sandy Hook NJ to Fire Island
Inlet ending at 10AM, Fire Island Inlet to Moriches Inlet ending
at 2PM and Moriches Inlet to Montauk Point ending at 4PM. The
southerly wave component on the ocean has trended longer with
duration of SCA seas with both NWPS and Wavewatch, prompting the
further increase in SCAs. All waters below SCA levels Friday
night.

Sub advisory conditions should prevail for the most part through 
Saturday night. On Sunday a S to SW flow strengthens ahead of a cold 
front with small craft conditions prevailing on the ocean, with 
marginal small craft conditions possible on the ocean and only 
for the eastern and south shore bays of LI. Elevated seas are 
likely to continue much of the ocean through at least Monday 
night. Behind a cold front Tuesday look for small craft 
conditions to continue on the ocean, and to develop on the non- 
ocean waters with a WNW wind increasing. A period of gales 
cannot be ruled out later Tuesday and Tuesday night.

&&

.HYDROLOGY...
Minor flooding possible late tonight into early Friday for 
western coastal sections around NYC Metro with any heavy 
showers and thunderstorms. Otherwise, no hydrological impacts 
are anticipated through the period.

&&

.OKX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CT...None.
NY...None.
NJ...None.
MARINE...Small Craft Advisory until 4 PM EDT Friday for ANZ350.
     Small Craft Advisory until 2 PM EDT Friday for ANZ353.
     Small Craft Advisory until 10 AM EDT Friday for ANZ355.

&&

$$

SYNOPSIS...JE/JM
NEAR TERM...JM/JP
SHORT TERM...JM
LONG TERM...JE
AVIATION...JP
MARINE...JE/JM/JP
HYDROLOGY...JE/JM
