351 
FXUS61 KOKX 300706
AFDOKX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service New York NY
306 AM EDT Sun Mar 30 2025

.SYNOPSIS...
A backdoor cold front will remain south of the area into early
this morning. The same front then returns as a warm front today,
lifting through the area tonight. A cold frontal passage Monday
night will allow high pressure to build in through the middle 
of next week. Another frontal system will likely impact the area
for the end of the week.

&&

.NEAR TERM /UNTIL 6 AM THIS MORNING/...
Weak isentropic lift atop of the colder low level air will 
continue bring a few showers through the overnight. Rainfall 
amounts will be light out of any of this activity. Skies will 
remain mostly cloudy to overcast overnight with low clouds 
likely. Some patchy fog is possible, but not anticipating any 
significant reduction in visibility with the cool NE-E flow. 

Lows will range from the upper 30s across interior southern CT,
to the lower 40s for the rest of the area. This is about 5 
degrees above normal.

&&

.SHORT TERM /6 AM THIS MORNING THROUGH 6 PM MONDAY/...
Expect mainly dry conditions today as the best thermal forcing 
lifts north of the area. However, easterly flow and low clouds 
will result in a much cooler day with highs ranging from the mid
40s eastern LI/SE CT, to the lower and mid 50s across western 
portions of the Lower Hudson Valley and the NYC/NJ metro. Patchy
fog is also a possibility but more likely at night as the 
boundary moves across the area. There is some uncertainty here 
with some of the model guidance supporting colder 2m temps. The 
NBM and CONSENUS are a bit warmer. Went in between the warmer 
NBM and cooler model consensus.

Warm front approaches tonight and passes to the north of the 
area by the early morning hours in a strengthening southerly 
flow. Chance of showers will increase at night but still not 
expecting high chances with rainfall amounts expected to be less
than a tenth of an inch. Lows will pretty much be what the 
highs were on Sunday as temperatures will gradually rise Sunday 
night. Toward daybreak Monday, temperatures will be in the 50s, 
possibly nearing 60 across NE NJ and the NYC metro.

&&

.LONG TERM /MONDAY NIGHT THROUGH SATURDAY/...
The modeling over the long term has remained relatively consistent. 
The first sys is a cdfnt Mon and Mon ngt. The fropa is still timed 
for Mon ngt. Some sct shwrs possible during the day Mon as heights 
fall in general, but the best forcing is invof the sfc front which 
reaches wrn areas around 00Z, bisects the area around 6Z, and is 
offshore by 12Z Tue. Some subtle changes in the timing possible as 
we draw closer to the event. Continued with slight chcs for tstms 
with the best forcing late Mon and Mon ngt. Most of the convection 
attm should be elevated, limiting impacts to heavier pockets of rain 
and isold lightning. However, tightly packed thicknesses along with 
cold pool processes could produce a strong burst of winds behind the 
front. Best estimates attm 40-50kt peak gusts possible in this 
scenario.

NW flow and clearing on Tue. Temps back close to normal in the 50s. 
It still looks cold Tue ngt with the high building in. The fcst 
remains mainly 20s with a few 30s in the warmest urban/cstl 
locations.

Increasing clouds ahead of the next sys Wed. Chances for shwrs Wed 
ngt thru Fri and perhaps Sat as a wrmfnt comes thru, followed by the 
associated cdfnt which potentially stalls in the area. Right now the 
modeling does not suggest rain for days on end, but with the front 
in the area and quasizonal flow aloft, there will be periods of 
possible shwrs. Went with the blended approach and stuck with the 
NBM for this time period.

&&

.AVIATION /07Z SUNDAY THROUGH THURSDAY/...
A frontal boundary remains southwest of the region through much of 
the TAF period. Towards the end of the TAF period, late tonight, the 
front moves northward over the area as a warm front.

Into early this morning, rain shower chances mainly just for 
terminals north of NYC and for CT terminals. Otherwise, minimal 
shower activity expected through today. More rain shower 
activity possible tonight.

Ceilings lowering to MVFR and IFR. Visibilities still mainly 
VFR. Trend will be downward through early today for both 
ceilings and visibility. Expecting mainly IFR ceilings and MVFR 
visibilities for today. There will be some periods of LIFR 
ceilings this morning. Some brief improvement to MVFR ceilings 
forecast for this afternoon. Not all TAFs have this, CT 
terminals and KISP do not.

Mainly IFR to LIFR ceilings expected for tonight. Fog becoming more 
of an issue tonight as well with forecast visibilities lowering to 
IFR and locally LIFR.

Regarding winds, they stay in a general easterly flow near 5 to 10 
kts through much of the TAF period. 30 hr NYC TAFs have more 
southerly component towards early Monday with wind speeds around
10-12 kt.

 ...NY Metro (KEWR/KLGA/KJFK/KTEB) TAF Uncertainty... 

Amendments likely to refine timing of categorical changes. For early 
today, MVFR could last a few hours longer than forecast. 

Less confidence on MVFR this afternoon. This may be shorter duration 
than forecast. Ceilings could very well fluctuate between MVFR and 
IFR this afternoon.

.OUTLOOK FOR 06Z MONDAY THROUGH THURSDAY...

Monday: Fog, chances of showers. LLWS SW winds 40 kt at 2kft. IFR to 
LIFR. Some improvement in afternoon with potential for MVFR. S-SW 
wind gusts 20-25 kt.

Monday night: Showers. Possible thunderstorms. MVFR to IFR. LIFR
possible. SW wind gusts near 20 kt, eventually becoming NW wind
gusts near 20 kt late.

Tuesday: VFR. NW wind gusts 15-20 kt during the day.

Wednesday: MVFR or lower possible at night with a chance of 
rain showers. SE wind gusts 15-20 kt.

Thursday: MVFR or lower possible with a chance of rain showers.
SW wind gusts 15-20 kt.

Detailed information, including hourly TAF wind component forecasts, 
can be found at: https:/www.weather.gov/zny/n90

&&

.MARINE...
SCA remains in effect on the ocean into early today.

Gusts below 25 kt, but ocean seas remain elevated. Seas will 
also start off around 5 ft this morning for the ocean waters 
east of Fire Island Inlet. A brief respite today before 
southerly winds increase ahead of an approaching cold front. SCA
conditions are likely to return to the ocean waters after 
midnight tonight. 

A frontal sys will produce solid SCA cond on the ocean Mon and 
Mon ngt, with gales possible. Elsewhere, SCA winds possible. 
There will likely be areas of fog, possibly a few tstms, and 
maybe a burst of gale force winds as the associated cold front 
passes thru Mon ngt.

A SCA will be needed on the ocean for Tue, with winds mrgnl 
elsewhere. Winds on Wed blw SCA lvls, but seas on the ocean may 
remain aoa 5 ft. Winds and seas come up again Thu with another 
frontal sys.

&&

.HYDROLOGY...
Some localized minor flooding, mainly urban and poor drainage, is 
possible late Mon and Mon ngt with a frontal sys. No additional 
hydrologic impacts are expected Tue-Sat.

&&

.TIDES/COASTAL FLOODING...
More sites are forecast to reach minor coastal flood benchmarks
for tonight around times of high tide. This expands beyond the 
shorelines of Fairfield CT to also include some other adjacent 
shoreline areas along Western LI Sound as well as the Long 
Island South Shore Bays and the Lower NY Harbor.

&&

.OKX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CT...None.
NY...None.
NJ...None.
MARINE...Small Craft Advisory until noon EDT today for ANZ350-353.
     Small Craft Advisory until 6 AM EDT early this morning for 
     ANZ355.

&&

$$

SYNOPSIS...JMC/DW
NEAR TERM...DS/DW
SHORT TERM...DW
LONG TERM...JMC
AVIATION...JM
MARINE...JMC/DW/JM
HYDROLOGY...JMC/DW
TIDES/COASTAL FLOODING...JM
