895 
FXUS61 KOKX 120538
AFDOKX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service New York NY
138 AM EDT Wed Mar 12 2025

.SYNOPSIS...
A weak cold front moves through tonight with high pressure 
building back in for Wednesday. A weak wave of low pressure 
moves by Wednesday night. High pressure remains in control 
Thursday and Friday. Thereafter, a warm front lifts through 
Saturday, before a strong cold front moves through the region 
into Sunday night. Behind it, high pressure returns early next 
week.

&&

.NEAR TERM /UNTIL 6 AM THIS MORNING/...
Advancing cold front was moving into the northwestern portions
of the region, into Orange County, at 02Z, and will continue to
track southeast, passing south and east of the region after
midnight. Little moisture and forcing will keep conditions dry 
locally, though winds shift NW then N into the overnight as 
surface high pressure builds east behind the fropa. Forecast 
remains on track and previous discussion follows.

Post cold front additional mixing may allow for any spots that 
radiated earlier in the evening to warm back up a bit and limit
the radiational cooling. Generally mostly clear skies and dry 
conditions are expected tonight with lows in the 30s, cooler 
inland and warmer near NYC, which may not drop out of the low 
40s.

&&

.SHORT TERM /6 AM THIS MORNING THROUGH 6 PM THURSDAY/...
High pressure moving north of the area builds back in for 
Wednesday allowing for mostly clear to partly cloudy skies 
during much of the day. A light N/NE flow in the morning shifts 
to an E flow by afternoon. This onshore flow with the high 
pressure sliding northeast of the area will promote cooler 
temperatures and an increase in low level moisture. Highs 
Wednesday are expected to be in the upper 40s to low 50s.

Clouds begin to build into the area late afternoon and into the
overnight as a weak surface trough approaches from the west. 
This will promote some overrunning of warmer air which combined 
with the increase low level moisture, may produce some shower 
activity over the area Wednesday late afternoon and through the 
overnight period. Depending on the exact timing and surface 
temperatures of any shower activity will determine whether these
showers fall in the form of a light rain or light snow/rain mix
for interior areas. The thinking is largely any shower activity
will fall in the form of mostly rain, but a rain/snow mix or 
some light snow for the higher elevations to the north can't be 
ruled out. Little to no snow accumulation is expected and 
rainfall amounts will be less than a tenth of an inch. Low 
temperatures Wednesday night will be in the 30s once again with 
colder locations to the north and warmer spots in and around the
NYC metro.

&&

.LONG TERM /THURSDAY NIGHT THROUGH TUESDAY/...
High pressure moves into the Canadian Maritimes Thursday while 
a weak low passes to the south and off the Mid Atlantic coast. 
With the easterly flow, expect plenty of stratus to develop and 
move in, with patchy areas of fog possible at times. Appreciable
rainfall looks limited however during this time. 

A more unsettled pattern sets up as deepening low pressure cuts
through the Central US and into the Upper Great Lakes this 
weekend with a mid level trough amplifying as it shifts east. 
This will send an associated warm front thru the local area 
Saturday, and strengthening southerly flow helps stream in 
moisture from the Gulf into Sunday. Potential for a period of 
heavy downpours ahead of the attendant cold frontal passage, 
though still differences in global guidance timing and placement
that will need to be resolved before getting too specific. 
Conditions should generally start to dry out into Monday as the 
system exits and high pressure builds in from the South.

Temperatures remain above average through the period. In fact, 
most should remain above the freezing mark into mid next week. 
Thursday looks to be the coolest day of the period with onshore 
flow helping dampen temperatures in the afternoon. Still, highs 
will be near normal values for mid March, generally in the upper
40s. Thereafter, a milder air mass advects in and keeps daytime
temperatures in the 50s and 60s, with overnight lows in the 
30s, 40s, and even 50s this weekend for some.

&&

.AVIATION /06Z WEDNESDAY THROUGH SUNDAY/...
A cold front was moving through the region, and at 05Z moved 
through KISP. The front will be south and east of the terminals
by 06Z or thereafter. High pressure builds across New England 
on Wednesday. A weak wave of low pressure approaches from the
west Wednesday evening.

VFR through the period. 

Winds will be NW as high pressure builds in tonight. Northwest 
gusts with the frontal passage may briefly be near 20 kt. Winds 
continue to shift through the overnight, becoming N. Winds may
become light and variable after the cold front moves through. The
flow will continue to shift to the NE Wednesday morning, and 
then to the E/SE Wednesday afternoon.


 ...NY Metro (KEWR/KLGA/KJFK/KTEB) TAF Uncertainty...

No unscheduled amendments expected.

.OUTLOOK FOR 06Z THURSDAY THROUGH SUNDAY...

Wednesday night-Thursday: Mainly VFR. MVFR or lower possible
with slight chance of a rain showers along the coast, and a 
chance of rain and snow showers inland Wednesday night.

Friday: VFR.

Saturday: MVFR possible. Slight chance of rain showers. S gusts 20-
30 kt Saturday night. 

Sunday: IFR or lower possible with showers, especially in the 
afternoon and at night. S wind gusts 25-35 kt. 

Detailed information, including hourly TAF wind component forecasts, 
can be found at: https:/www.weather.gov/zny/n90

&&

.MARINE...
Sub SCA conditions persist tonight and through much of the day 
Wednesday with light flow. A more persistent E/SE flow picks up 
late Wednesday which may generate wave heights near 5 feet on 
some of the ocean zones by Wednesday night and into Thursday 
night. All sheltered waters will remain below SCA thresholds.

Ocean seas are expected to lower below SCA criteria Friday, 
before increasing once again late Saturday with strengthening 
southerly flow. SCA conditions return to all waters by Sunday 
with 25 kt gusts developing.

&&

.HYDROLOGY...
No hydrologic impacts expected into the beginning of this weekend.
There is potential for heavy downpours ahead of a frontal passage
Sunday and Sunday night. There remains uncertainty into the 
duration and placement, but the possibility of nuisance flooding
cannot be ruled out.

&&

.OKX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CT...None.
NY...None.
NJ...None.
MARINE...None.

&&

$$

SYNOPSIS...DR/MW
NEAR TERM...DR/MET/MW
SHORT TERM...MW
LONG TERM...DR
AVIATION...JP
MARINE...DR/MET/MW
HYDROLOGY...DR/MW
