152 
FXUS61 KOKX 261907
AFDOKX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service New York NY
307 PM EDT Sat Jul 26 2025

.SYNOPSIS...
High pressure moves southeast tonight. A weak frontal system 
then approaches late tonight, moving through on Sunday. High 
pressure returns Monday into Tuesday. A cold front approaches 
Wednesday and moves across the area Wednesday night into 
Thursday. High pressure builds in from the Great Lakes Friday 
into next Saturday. 

&&

.NEAR TERM /THROUGH SUNDAY/...
Region remains on the NE periphery of strong southern ridging with a 
shearing Mid Mississippi River valley short wave approaching tonight 
and crossing on Sunday. At the surface, high pressure slides east of 
the region tonight into Sunday, allowing a warm front to 
gradually approach the area. 

The ne flow allowed a pool of wildfire smoke to rotate and mix 
down into the area today. This will continue into the afternoon
while gradually diluting this evening. Visibility will be reduced
to 4 to 6 mile in haze through the afternoon with a faint smell
of smoke as a result. EPA monitored PM AQI levels of 100 to 150
(unhealthy for sensitive groups to all groups) being observed 
across much of the area this afternoon, which should gradually 
improve this evening into tonight as smoke dilutes and winds 
increase from the S. NYS/NJ has issued an air quality alert for 
SE NY and NE thru midnight.

Otherwise, high and mid clouds will be on the increase this 
evening, with increasing chance for showers across NY metro and 
points west into tonight with good theta-e advection and lift 
ahead of approaching elevated warm front and mid-level 
shortwave. Deep layer moisture increases through the night with 
soundings becoming quite tropical, although instability will be
minimal, mainly below mixed phases region, and mainly west of
the hudson R. Increasing chance for showers overnight, with 
potential for some heavy downpours in the morning for NYC and 
points N&W with localized 1"/hr rainfall rates, but better 
forcing and instability appears to be west and north of the 
region.

Instability gradually builds to marginal levels across western half 
of the Tri-State in the aft/eve, particularly west of the Hudson, 
limited by plenty of cloud cover. Deep layer shear appears marginal 
as well, but could be enhanced by approaching warm front, 
particularly at low-levels. Approaching shortwave energy should
be focus for scattered convection along/ahead of warm 
front/surface trough approach. A localized flash flood threat 
exists as well with any repetitive or backbuilding strong storms
that may develop/anchor along the N/S oriented warm 
front/trough in response to moist 25-30kt W LLJ feeding in a 2 
1/4" PWATS environment. Potential for 2"hr rainfall rates. More 
stable conditions across eastern LI and SE CT should weaken 
thunderstorms activity and coverage as it moves east, but 
localized heavy downpours with 1"+/hr rates are possible. The 
secondary threat is potential for isolated strong to severe 
storms. Strong to damaging wind gusts would be main threat with 
high PWAT environment and some mid-level dry air entrainment 
potential, but marginal shear and instability are limited 
factors for coverage and intensity.

Activity should dissipate in the evening as shortwave energy slides 
east, warm front moves through, and surface instability wanes. 
Otherwise near seasonable temps for tonight with increasing humidity 
levels as return flow develops. Warm and muggy for Sunday, but temps 
may remain below seasonable with clouds and shra/tsra activity. Very 
warm and muggy for Sum Night.


&&

.SHORT TERM /SUNDAY NIGHT THROUGH MONDAY NIGHT/...
* Heat and humidity builds on Monday. Heat Advisory in effect
  for the entire area for Mon and Tue.

Region remains on the NE periphery of strong southern ridging 
Monday, with surface high extending from deep south into southern 
Canada building into the region. 

With 850 mb temps rising to 18-20c, plenty of sunshine and 
light NW winds to start the day, temps should be able to quickly
rise into the lower to mid 90s for much of the area by early 
afternoon, even to the coast. Combined with TDs in the lower 
70s, heat indices in the mid to upper 90s expected for the 
coast. Upper 90s to lower 100s heat indices likely for NYC 
metro, LoHud, NE NJ, and SW CT, but potential for widespread 
105F heat indices appears low and sparse at this time.

Muggy Monday Night, with low temps in the mid to upper 70s for 
NYC/NJ metro, and lower to mid 70s elsewhere.

Weak shortwave/vorts move through the region Mon eve/night, but
fairly strong 700-850 mb capping appears to inhibit tstm 
formation.

&&

.LONG TERM /TUESDAY THROUGH SATURDAY/...
Key Points: 

*High heat and humidity continues on Tuesday and likely persist into 
Wednesday. Heat indices look highest Tuesday (100 to around 105F) 
with potentially upper 90s to around 100 on Wednesday. 

*Chances for showers and thunderstorms increases a bit late 
Wednesday and could persist into a portion of Thursday. 

*High pressure builds towards the area to end the week and should 
dominate the pattern the first half of next weekend bringing cooler 
temperatures and low humidity levels. 

Ridging will remain in control on Tuesday, but begins to weaken over 
the northeast Tuesday night into Wednesday. An anomalously strong 
upper trough digs southward out of southeast Canada Thursday and 
should settle over the northeast and New England Friday into next 
Saturday.

Heat headlines still appear likely for Tuesday and should continue 
into Wednesday for a portion of the area. The core of the 
heat shifts south of the area on Wednesday, but dew points should 
remain fairly high in the upper 60s and lower 70s in the afternoon. 
Otherwise, confidence continues to increase on much cooler 
conditions Thursday and especially Friday into the first half of 
next weekend. There is potential for below normal temperatures to 
start the month of August. 

Convection chances have diminished for Tuesday afternoon and evening. 
Chances for showers and thunderstorms increase late Wednesday into 
Wednesday night with the passage of the cold front. It is too early 
to determine if any severe weather is possible given a high amount 
of uncertainty with instability and timing. Models have also been 
signaling a frontal wave passing to our south on Thursday, which 
hold onto shower chances, highest near the coast, into a 
portion of Thursday evening. Dry conditions should return Friday 
into next weekend with high pressure building in from the northwest.

&&

.AVIATION /19Z SATURDAY THROUGH THURSDAY/...
High pressure over the region moves offshore this evening and
into tonight. A warm front approaches the area from the west 
late tonight, moving into the region Sunday morning, and
possiblybecoming stationary.

Generally VFR, with areas MVFR with visibilities reduced in 
haze through this afternoon. MVFR possible late tonight into
Sunday morning with a chance of showers, generally 07Z to 14Z.

Winds E to SE around 10 kt become S late day and into this
evening. Tonight winds become light from the south, to light and
variable. Winds increase from the south 5 to 10 KT Sunday
morning.


   ...NY Metro (KEWR/KLGA/KJFK/KTEB) TAF Uncertainty...

Timing of showers late tonight with MVFR may be off a couple of
hours.


.OUTLOOK FOR 18Z SUNDAY THROUGH THURSDAY... 

Sunday afternoon: MVFR into Sunday evening then VFR. Showers 
and thunderstorms likely from the NYC terminals and north and 
west, and a chance to the east.

Monday - Tuesday: VFR.

Wednesday: VFR. A chance of showers and a slight chance of
thunderstorms with MVFR at night.

Thursday: VFR. A chance of showers with MVFR possible.

Detailed information, including hourly TAF wind component 
forecasts, can be found at: https:/www.weather.gov/zny/n90

&&

.MARINE...
A weak pressure gradient thru Wednesday will lead to the 
continuation of conditions below Small Craft Advisory levels. 
Conditions should remain below Advisory levels next Thursday, 
but there may be a slight increase in winds and seas due to the 
passage of a cold front. 

&&

.HYDROLOGY...
Isolated instances of flash flood possible Sunday 
afternoon/evening, mainly for NYC and points N&W, with any 
training or backbuilding thunderstorm activity. Rainfall rates 
of 2"/hr possible. A basin average 1/4 to 3/4" of rainfall is 
likely across this area. with locally 2-3" possible, falling in 
as little as 1 to 2 hrs.

There are currently no hydrologic concerns next week.

&&

.TIDES/COASTAL FLOODING...
A moderate rip current risk continues at ocean beaches into this 
evening. The rip current risk remains low on Wednesday as seas and 
swells subside in combination of a developing light S flow in the 
afternoon. The rip current risk increases to moderate on Thursday 
with increasing S flow to 10-15 kt and building S seas to 3-4 ft in 
the afternoon.

&&

.OKX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CT...Heat Advisory from 11 AM Monday to 8 PM EDT Tuesday for 
     CTZ005>012.
NY...Heat Advisory from 11 AM Monday to 8 PM EDT Tuesday for 
     NYZ067>075-078>081-176>179.
     Air Quality Alert until midnight EDT tonight for NYZ067>075-
     078>081-176>179.
NJ...Heat Advisory from 11 AM Monday to 8 PM EDT Tuesday for NJZ002-
     004-006-103>108.
     Air Quality Alert until midnight EDT tonight for NJZ002-004-
     006-103>108.
MARINE...None.

&&

$$

SYNOPSIS...DS/NV
NEAR TERM...NV
SHORT TERM...NV
LONG TERM...DS
AVIATION...MET
MARINE...DS/NV
HYDROLOGY...DS/NV
TIDES/COASTAL FLOODING...JE
