973 
FXUS61 KOKX 090913
AFDOKX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service New York NY
413 AM EST Thu Jan 9 2025

.SYNOPSIS...
Low pressure in the Canadian Maritimes will slowly push northeast, 
while high pressure to the west will gradually build through Friday. 
An upper level disturbance pivots through Saturday while low pressure
down to the south pushes well offshore. High pressure builds towards 
the area Saturday night and will settle over the region Sunday into
Sunday night. The high weakens Monday as broad low pressure and an
associated cold front cross the area Tuesday followed by the return
of high pressure next Wednesday. 

&&

.NEAR TERM /THROUGH TONIGHT/...
After some clouds early look for skies to generally clear for today. 
The story today will be the wind as a wind advisory will remain in 
place through a good portion of this evening for the entire area. 
The fx sounding profiles for the most part are supportive of wind 
adv criteria being met. FV3, NAM 3 km, and RAP generally support at 
least lower end of wind adv criteria. The only uncertainty centers 
around inversion at around 850 mb initially, with some guidance 
suggestive that the inversion lowers closer to 900 mb. In any event, 
the top of the mixed layer looks to get at least 40 kt winds down on 
momentum transfer, along with the fact that the region has 
outperformed recently with respect to winds in this recent NW flow 
regime. Thus the advisory across the entire area seems prudent. A 
potent shortwave pivots east and in it's wake expect strong NW 
winds. Winds should be sustained at 20 to 25 mph easily, with some 
spots closer to 25 to 28 mph sustained. Gusts look to be 45 to 50 
mph, with the possibility of a couple of spots gusting to 55 mph. 
Thus another dry, windy, and cold day on tap with temperatures 
struggling to get out of the 20s further north, and around freezing 
or just above for southern coastal sections and the NYC metro. The 
advisory will last through 03z, with the winds trailing off for the 
second half of this evening, and more noticeably after midnight.

Lows tonight with a gusty NW wind continuing, although the stronger 
wind gusts will subside will be generally in the 20s, with the wind 
making it feel about 10 to 15 degrees colder as wind chills will run 
in the upper single digits up north, to mainly teens along the 
immediate coast. 

&&

.SHORT TERM /FRIDAY THROUGH SATURDAY/...
Some subtle height rises are progged ahead of the next feature into
Friday. The cP air mass will undergo some modification, especially
into the day Friday. During the day Friday look for temperatures
to get closer to normal, but likely ending up a few degrees 
below as max temps should get into the middle and upper 30s as 
all places should get above freezing. The winds will continue to
gradually lighten through the day as the pressure gradient 
continues to weaken, although the winds will still gust through 
the morning as went above consensus guidance with wind speeds 
through the first half of the day. After a mostly sunny start, 
look for more in the way of high clouds as cirrus streaks in 
during the late afternoon in advance of a strong confluent 
trough developing upstream back to the southwest.

For Friday night clouds increase from west to east. Introduce slight 
chance PoPs across western areas closer to 3z, with the entire 
region getting into slight chance to chance PoPs after 6z. Positive 
vorticity advection begins to increase during this time frame, 
however the lower levels will remain moisture starved. The main 
driver of any synoptic lift will be PVA as any thermal advection 
will get shunted well south of the area into Saturday morning as the 
coastal system will not make the northerly turn up the coast to 
begin the weekend. If anything the NWP consensus shears the storm 
out to sea even more so with the more recent runs. By Saturday 
morning NW interior locations may have a light coating of snow as 
anything that fall will be colder enough to be in the form of snow. 
Lows Friday night will be primarily in the 20s. Another night where 
radiational cooling is not expected, but not due to wind as the 
winds will be light, rather due to cloud cover.

The trough axis approaches Saturday morning with much of the higher 
res guidance showing snow showers moving from W to E across the 
region. Most places are expecting to see around a dusting, to 
perhaps a half inch to an inch in the higher elevations to the NW. 
Look for partial sunshine to develop into the afternoon as the 
trough axis pivots through with the winds switching to the NW for 
the afternoon. Temperatures will be in the 30s region wide.

&&

.LONG TERM /SATURDAY NIGHT THROUGH WEDNESDAY/...
No significant changes to the forecast thinking Saturday night 
through the middle of next week. 

Key Points:

*Dry conditions will prevail Saturday night through the middle of 
next week. 

*Temperatures will be seasonably cold Sunday into early next week 
with potential for colder air to arrive by the middle of  next week. 

The model guidance is in overall good agreement with the larger 
scale evolution of the pattern during the period.A progressive 
shortwave ridge will build over the northeast Saturday night into 
Sunday. The ridge weakens as it moves offshore by Monday with a 
broad upper low swinging towards the region Tuesday into Wednesday. 
High pressure will be in control through Sunday and then weaken 
early next week. A dry cold front appears likely to be associated 
with the aforementioned upper low sometimes Tuesday into Tuesday 
night. This may set the stage for another period of blustery and 
colder conditions for the middle of next week. High temperatures 
Sunday into early next week will be in the mid to upper 30s, with 
some of the warmer spots potentially touching 40 degrees. Nighttime 
temperatures will largely 20s through Monday night. A colder airmass 
arrives with the cold front allowing lows to potentially fall into 
the teens for mid week with highs struggling to rise above freezing.

&&

.AVIATION /09Z THURSDAY THROUGH MONDAY/...
The terminals will remain between strong low pressure to the 
northeast and strong high pressure to the west.

VFR. 

Strong flow around 300-310 true through the TAF period. Gusts around 
25-35 kt early this morning increase to around 40 kt with peak gusts 
around 45 kt. Winds begin to diminish after 00z Friday with gusts 
decreasing to 30-35 kt in the evening and then 25-30 kt early Friday 
morning.

...NY Metro (KEWR/KLGA/KJFK/KTEB) TAF Uncertainty...

Occasional gusts 35-40 kt through 12z becoming frequent thereafter. 
Peak gusts around 45 kt possible late morning into the afternoon.

OUTLOOK FOR 06Z FRIDAY THROUGH MONDAY...

Tonight: VFR with gusty NW winds.

Friday: VFR. NW wind gusts 20 kt in the morning.

Saturday: Chance of light snow and MVFR. NW gusts 20 kt possible 
late. 

Sunday-Monday: VFR. 

Detailed information, including hourly TAF wind component forecasts, 
can be found at: https:/www.weather.gov/zny/n90

&&

.MARINE...
Gale warnings continue on the ocean waters today with gusts to 
around 40 kt and ocean seas mostly 6 to 9 ft. The NW winds will 
continue into the first half of Friday, with gales going over to 
small craft conditions towards Friday morning. High pressure draws 
near and the pressure gradient will slacken with lighter winds 
Friday afternoon into Friday night. Seas on the ocean fall below 5 
ft Friday morning and eventually get down to 1 to 2 ft late Friday 
night. Sub small craft conditions will continue through the day 
Saturday, but a NW wind begins to pick up some late in the afternoon.

Marginal SCA conditions are possible Saturday night into Sunday on 
the ocean behind a departing offshore low pressure. Otherwise, high 
pressure builds towards the waters Sunday night into early next week 
allowing winds and seas to remain below SCA levels. 

&&

.HYDROLOGY...
No hydrologic issues are anticipated through the middle of next
week.

&&

.OKX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CT...Wind Advisory until 10 PM EST this evening for CTZ005>012.
NY...Wind Advisory until 10 PM EST this evening for NYZ067>075-
     078>081-176>179.
NJ...Wind Advisory until 10 PM EST this evening for NJZ002-004-006-
     103>108.
MARINE...Gale Warning until 6 AM EST Friday for ANZ331-332-335-338-340-
     345-350-353-355.

&&

$$

SYNOPSIS...JE/DS
NEAR TERM...JE
SHORT TERM...JE
LONG TERM...DS
AVIATION...DS
MARINE...JE/DS
HYDROLOGY...JE/DS
