191 
FXUS61 KOKX 212334
AFDOKX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service New York NY
634 PM EST Fri Feb 21 2025

.SYNOPSIS...
High pressure builds today into the weekend, then moves offshore
Sunday night into Monday. A warm front passes nearby to the 
north during Monday, followed by a cold front moving through 
Tuesday night. Weak high pressure then briefly returns for 
Wednesday before a frontal system likely affects the region on 
Thursday.

&&

.NEAR TERM /UNTIL 6 AM SATURDAY MORNING/...
Forecast on track as high pressure builds to our south tonight.
Winds will diminish as the pressure gradient over the forecast 
area weakens. Dry conditions with lows around 20 in the city and
teens elsewhere. Wind chills overnight fall to around 10 in the
city with single digits elsewhere.

&&

.SHORT TERM /6 AM SATURDAY MORNING THROUGH SATURDAY NIGHT/...
The flow aloft will be zonal for the most part during the period 
with weakening surface high pressure centered to our south. Sunny 
conditions to start the day Saturday, then it appears that some 
cirrus will be filtering the sun during the afternoon. WSW winds 
will help push high temperatures close to 40 in the city with middle 
and upper 30s across the rest of the area. 

The cirrus should shift out of here during the overnight hours of 
Saturday. This will probably allow for a few hours of favorable 
radiational cooling conditions. Anticipating low temperatures in the 
low 20s for the northernmost zones and Pine Barrens Region, around 
30 in the city, and mid to upper 20s elsewhere.

&&

.LONG TERM /SUNDAY THROUGH FRIDAY/...
Key Points:

* Temperatures likely 5 to 10 degrees above normal Tuesday through 
  Thursday. A return to more seasonable temps to end the week. 

* Mainly dry conditions are expected through mid week. A frontal 
  system will likely affect the region Wed Night into Thursday, with 
  a more organized low pressure system possible for next weekend.

Quasi-zonal upper flow through early next week with PAC jet riding 
the northern tier of the ConUS around expansive polar trough across 
southern Canada. Southern stream appears to remain split from 
northern stream until late week, after the northern stream upper 
flow becomes increasingly amplified during the mid to late week as a 
series of deepening shortwaves ride along the flow.

Seasonable conditions Sunday into Monday as a weak shortwave and 
surface trough move through on Sunday morning with weak Canadian 
high pressure building in Sun Night into Mon AM, and offshore 
during the day Monday.  

General agreement with quick succession of shortwaves moving through 
southcentral to southeastern tier of Canada Sunday Night into Monday 
Night, and then a stronger shortwave digging from the northern 
plains Monday to the eastern US Tuesday Night (although there is a 
bit of model spread in timing/amplitude of this shortwave). The 
result will be a complex frontal system with primary low pressure 
tracking around the base of Hudson's Bay, and possible secondary 
triple point low developing across the US/Canadian border that could 
bring the next chance for precipitation locally late Tuesday into 
Wed AM. This looks to be a progressive system with limited precip 
potential. The amplified SW flow into the NE US and resulting 
moderating trend Mon into Tuesday support a mainly rain event, with 
temps rising to above seasonable levels. Will have to monitor the 
low probability of a potential interaction of this northern stream 
shortwave with a southern branch shortwave, and possible backing of 
developing offshore low closer to the coast bringing a wetter 
scenario (limited support for this from ECMWF and its ensembles).  

Thereafter, general model agreement in further longitudinal 
amplification of troughing across the Eastern US for late week 
period in response to a more vigorous PAC shortwave diving through 
the Central US into the SE US. Typical model timing/amplitude spread 
exists at this time frame, with resultant model spread in 
track/timing/intensity of a clipper type system through the region 
Thu/Thu night. Pattern suggestive of another progressive and 
primarily rain system.
 
In its wake, a subsequent return to more seasonable late Feb/early 
March temps for Friday, and possibly below normal with a more 
organized low pressure system for the weekend.

&&

.AVIATION /00Z SATURDAY THROUGH WEDNESDAY/...
High pressure builds into the area through tonight, and remains
in control into Saturday.

VFR through the forecast period.

NW flow 15-20 kt, gusting to 25-30 kt through this evening, 
with a few gusts of 30-35 kt possible. NW flow continues tonight
with winds and gusts diminishing, and gusts ending 04Z to 06Z.

Winds becoming W-SW on Saturday around 10 kt.


 ...NY Metro (KEWR/KLGA/KJFK/KTEB) TAF Uncertainty...

No unscheduled amendments expected. Occasional gusts 30-35 kt
possible.

.OUTLOOK FOR 18Z SATURDAY THROUGH WEDNESDAY...

21z Saturday - Sunday: VFR. 

Monday through Wednesday: Mainly VFR. A slight chance of rain 
showers Tuesday night with low chance of MVFR mainly north and
west.

Detailed information, including hourly TAF wind component forecasts, 
can be found at: https:/www.weather.gov/zny/n90

&&

.MARINE...
Winds gradually diminish overnight, falling to Sub-advisory late
tonight into Saturday morning. Sub-advisory conditions then 
follow for Saturday through Monday with a weak pressure gradient
over the waters.

Potential for marginal SCA conditions on the ocean waters Mon Night 
into Tuesday with marginal S/SW SCA winds and waves in the wake of 
warm frontal passage and ahead of approaching cold front/possible 
low pressure.

Return to Sub SCA conds Tue Night into Wed likely as weak high 
pressure builds.

&&

.HYDROLOGY...
No hydrologic impacts are expected through the end of next week.

&&

.OKX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CT...None.
NY...None.
NJ...None.
MARINE...Small Craft Advisory until 6 AM EST Saturday for ANZ331-332-
     340-350-353-355.
     Small Craft Advisory until 1 AM EST Saturday for ANZ335-338-
     345.

&&

$$

SYNOPSIS...JC/NV
NEAR TERM...JC/NV
SHORT TERM...JC
LONG TERM...NV
AVIATION...IRD
MARINE...JC/NV
HYDROLOGY...JC/NV
