112 
FXUS61 KOKX 290539
AFDOKX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service New York NY
139 AM EDT Thu May 29 2025

.SYNOPSIS...
Low pressure along the Mid Atlantic coast this evening will track
to the south and east of Long Island later tonight into Thursday.
Weak high pressure will then briefly build in for Thursday night.
Another low approaches from the Mid-Atlantic on Friday. It passes 
through late Friday night on its way to New England for Saturday, 
with a trailing cold front moving through late in the day into 
Saturday night. The low will meander over eastern Canada early next 
week as high pressure slowly builds from the west.

&&

.NEAR TERM /THROUGH TODAY/...
An upper low over the Great Lakes and Midwest states will drive
an area of low pressure over the Mid Atlantic states northeast 
tonight. The low will pass south and east of LI late tonight 
into the first half of Thursday. The combination of large scale
warm advection in a deep-layered WSW flow aloft and the thermal
forcing to the north of the low track will continue producing 
light rain into early this morning.

Rain in the morning may linger across far SE CT and the twin 
forks into early afternoon. However, most of the area should be 
dry for the afternoon with some partial clearing, especially 
back to the west across NYC, NE NJ, and the Lower Hudson Valley.
Winds will then back around from the NE in the morning to the 
NW in the afternoon, dropping below 10 mph. Highs will range 
from the 60s across CT and eastern LI, to the lower 70s 
elsewhere. This is a few degrees below normal.

&&

.SHORT TERM /TONIGHT THROUGH 6 PM FRIDAY/...
Weak high pressure builds quickly across the area Thursday 
evening and then to the east by Friday morning. Not much change
in the airmass with dew points in the 50s and lows in the mid 
up to upper 50s. May have to watch for some patchy fog
development late Thursday night due to the light winds and 
moisture in place. For the time, have kept dry, but there is 
some guidance showing a few showers by daybreak as weak front 
approaches from the west.

&&

.LONG TERM /FRIDAY NIGHT THROUGH WEDNESDAY/...
Models in general agreement with an h5 trough axis digging into the 
Ohio Valley on Friday before shifting into the forecast area during 
Saturday, then remaining nearby on Sunday. Associated surface low 
approaches from the Mid-Atlantic Friday night before passing through 
late at night into Saturday morning. A cold front then moves through 
late in the day into the evening with the low continuing to head 
north, tracking through Quebec on Sunday.

Rain will be likely with this system with the highest probabilities 
(70-80%) late Friday night into Saturday as the surface low passes 
through the area. Hydrologic impacts would appear to be limited in 
part due to forecast PWATs and convective chances. See the hydrology 
section for more details. 

Although a cyclonic flow remains aloft for both Sunday and Monday, 
both days likely remain dry as moisture will be limited. Deep-
layered ridging then keeps us dry through Wednesday with moderating 
temperatures.

&&

.AVIATION /06Z THURSDAY THROUGH MONDAY/...
Low pressure passes just south and east of the terminals 
through this morning.

Mainly IFR conditions early this morning with some pockets of
LIFR at outlying terminals NW of NYC. Any lingering VFR/MVFR
across Long Island and southeast Connecticut will lower to IFR
in the next few hours. Confidence is higher with ceilings and
lower with visibilities through day break. Light rain will
continue through day break and should taper off by late morning.

There is a chance visibilities will lower to IFR. Conditions 
will likely begin improving to MVFR late this morning/early 
afternoon with VFR becoming likely late afternoon/early evening.
VFR should prevail first half of tonight across most terminals
before lower to MVFR, possibly IFR late tonight/early Friday
morning. 

E-NE flow around 10 kt or less to start early this morning. Some
coastal locations could see winds increase briefly to 10-15 kt
through 09z. Winds will then back towards the N after day break
and then NNW-NW through early afternoon. Winds should then
become SW-S late afternoon early evening, although there is a
chance at variable wind directions for a time 18-22z. A light
SW-S flow should prevail tonight. 

 ...NY Metro (KEWR/KLGA/KJFK/KTEB) TAF Uncertainty...
Low confidence with how low visibilities will get early this
morning. Higher confidence flight categories will be IFR from
ceilings. 

Any gusts will be occasional through 10z. 

Timing of improving conditions may be off by several hours into
the afternoon. 

Low confidence wind direction this afternoon/early evening. 

.OUTLOOK FOR 06Z FRIDAY THROUGH MONDAY... 

Late Tonight: MVFR/IFR ceilings possible late. 

Friday: MVFR/IFR ceilings possible with showers possible. 

Friday night and Saturday: Showers and possibly a thunderstorm.
MVFR or lower likely. SW-W winds G15-20kt Saturday afternoon.

Sunday and Monday...VFR.

Detailed information, including hourly TAF wind component forecasts, 
can be found at: https:/www.weather.gov/zny/n90

&&

.MARINE...
A strengthening easterly flow will produce a period of marginal
SCA conditions on the ocean waters later tonight into Thursday.
Winds will be marginal with the potential for gusts up to 25kt 
late tonight into Thursday morning. Wind become light in the 
afternoon. However, a building SE swell will produce a period of
seas around 5 ft late tonight into Thursday, likely lingering 
east of Fire Island Inlet in the first half of Thursday night.

Conditions on the waters remain below SCA levels on Friday. A period 
of stronger westerly flow gusting to 25 kt may be possible on 
Saturday in the wake of low pressure passing through in the morning. 
Seas over 5 ft are also likely Sat into Sat night, which may may 
take some time to subside E of Fire Island Inlet during the daytime 
Sunday.

&&

.HYDROLOGY...
No hydrologic impacts expected through Friday afternoon.

A half inch to inch of rain with locally higher amounts will be 
possible from Friday night through Saturday. Hydrologic impacts so 
far appear to be limited to minor urban/poor drainage flooding. 
Forecast PWATs are just average to slightly above average for this 
time of the year, but elevated convection along with a chance of a 
llj and mid level shortwave passing through could help maximize the 
potential of the PWAT values late Friday night into Saturday 
morning. Anticipating mainly light to moderate rainfall, but a low 
threat of heavy downpours exists Friday night and Saturday morning. 
Can't even rule out brief heavy downpours Saturday afternoon since 
thunderstorms will still be possible.

&&

.TIDES/COASTAL FLOODING...
Astronomical tides will gradually subside through the end of
the week. Water levels will remain below minor flood stage at 
the most vulnerable locations of the south shore back bays and 
western LI Sound with high tide tonight. A building SE swell 
Thursday may lead to localized minor flooding for these 
locations with high tide Thursday night. Additional localized 
minor coastal flooding is possible Friday night due to a 
intensifying low pressure passing over the area.

There is a low rip current risk at ocean beaches through this 
evening with with 1-2 ft seas and winds generally 10 kt or less.
The risk increases to high on Thursday due to a building seas 
to 5-6 ft and SE swells.

&&

.OKX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CT...None.
NY...High Risk for Rip Currents from 6 AM EDT this morning through this 
     evening for NYZ075-080-081-178-179.
NJ...None.
MARINE...Small Craft Advisory from 6 AM this morning to 2 AM EDT Friday 
     for ANZ350.
     Small Craft Advisory until 2 AM EDT Friday for ANZ353.
     Small Craft Advisory until 6 PM EDT this evening for ANZ355.

&&

$$

SYNOPSIS...JC/DW
NEAR TERM...JT/DW
SHORT TERM...DW
LONG TERM...JC
AVIATION...DS
MARINE...JC/DW
HYDROLOGY...JC/DW
TIDES/COASTAL FLOODING...
