798 
FXUS61 KOKX 132341
AFDOKX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service New York NY
741 PM EDT Wed Aug 13 2025

.SYNOPSIS...
A pre-frontal trough ahead of a cold front across the eastern
Great Lakes will move into the area this evening where it will
become nearly stationary. The cold front will then very slowly
work west to east across the area Thursday afternoon and night.
High pressure then builds over the region through Friday night
before moving offshore Saturday. A cold front approaches Sunday, 
moving through late in the day into Sunday night. The front may 
stall nearby, as waves of low pressure move along the boundary 
into early next week. Meanwhile, high pressure attempts to return 
from the north early next week.

&&

.NEAR TERM /THROUGH THURSDAY/...
The combination of a mid-level shortwave trough and an 
approaching surface trough will produce a round of showers and 
thunderstorms into this evening. The brunt of the activity will
work across the Lower Hudson Valley, interior NE NJ, interior 
SW CT, and NYC early this evening before weakening and working 
across eastern CT and LI. The severe weather threat is low with 
weak mid-level lapse rates and lack of deep-layer shear. However,
moderate instability and high PW (increasing to 2") could produce
a few strong thunderstorms with locally heavy rainfall. The SPC
HREF shows high neighborhood probabilities (greater than 50 
percent) for an inch/3hr, mainly from NYC and points north and 
west. For 3"/3hr, the same probabilities get to only around 10 
percent. WPC also has the area in marginal risk of excessive 
rainfall, which mean the potential is there for isolated flash 
flooding. For the second half of the night, chances for showers
and thunderstorms will decrease. However, NBM PoPS were used and
may be too high based on latest CAMs. The CAMs show very little
activity after 10 PM this evening with the airmass stabilizing
some and deep lift translating east. 

Patchy fog is also a possibility overnight with light winds and
high dew point air in place. The fog could persist in spots 
after daybreak for 2 to 3 hours. 

The surface trough lingers across the area Thursday before the
cold front merges with it. This will potentially result in 
another round of showers and thunderstorms, mainly in the 
afternoon. Once again, latest CAMs are relatively inactive 
during the morning hours. Environment remains weakly sheared and
moderately unstable. Thus, the severe weather threat remains 
low. However, high PW air remains in place and steering winds 
will be light. This will keep the area under a isolated threat 
of flash flooding. WPC has much of the area under a marginal 
risk of excessive rainfall. 

Rainfall amounts through Thursday are generally less than half 
an inch on average, but localized higher amounts of an inch plus
are possible. 

It will remain warm and muggy tonight with lows mainly in the
lower and mid 70s. This is about 3 to 5 degrees above normal.
Highs on Thursday are expected to come down some due to the 
presence of more cloud clover. However, temperatures could be 
slightly warmer if more sunshine is achieved. Highs will be 
mainly in the mid to upper 80s, but cooler along the south shore
and east of LI. This is about 5 degrees above normal. NBM and 
MOS temperatures are very close during this time.

&&

.SHORT TERM /THURSDAY NIGHT THROUGH FRIDAY/...
Cold front will slowly drop south Thursday night into Friday 
with any lingering convection ending early in the evening. High
pressure then builds in from the north through Friday. While the
airmass is not whole lot cooler, an easterly flow should cool 
the boundary layer some. It will also become slightly less 
humid. Forecast area will reside close to the northern edge of 
a cloud shield and some of the 12Z guidance has trended toward 
more clouds across the area. NBM at this time keeps clouds to 
the south.

&&

.LONG TERM /FRIDAY NIGHT THROUGH WEDNESDAY/...
The beginning of the long term period will be quiet with 
temperatures near seasonal normals with high pressure over the 
region. High pressure will be offshore Sunday as a cold front 
approaches, and moves through late day into Sunday night. With a 
return flow temperatures Sunday will be in the lower 90s inland and 
upper 80s along the coast. And the combination of dew points in the 
upper 60s to lower 70s will produce heat indices in the mid 90s. 
Sunday will be the only day of heat and humidity as temperatures 
return to near or below seasonal levels behind the cold front Monday 
into Wednesday. And drier air will be moving in as high pressure 
builds to the north. The cold front is expected to stall somewhere 
south of the region late Sunday night, and weak waves of low 
pressure move along the boundary Monday through Wednesday. With this 
possibility there are at least slight chances of precipitation, 
although there will be dry periods at times as well. The NBM was 
followed throughout the extended period.

&&

.AVIATION /00Z THURSDAY THROUGH MONDAY/...
A cold front slowly approaches tonight, moving through Thursday. 

Cluster of tstms tracks ewd this eve, with some residual shwrs 
possible overnight behind it. Cannot rule out isold tstms 
overnight as well, but coverage and probs are too low to include
in the TAFs. 

Generally VFR outside of shwrs and tstms, although KGON is
expected to drop to IFR late. There is a chance it gets into ISP
as well.

Sct shwrs and tstms possible again on Thu, mainly in the aftn
invof the front. Prob30s have been maintained in the fcst. 

Winds lighten tonight, going variable in direction at most 
terminals, which may persist through much of Thursday morning or
become northerly. Increasing southerly flow then follows in the
afternoon, followed by light N/VRB flow Thu ngt.

 ...NY Metro (KEWR/KLGA/KJFK/KTEB) TAF Uncertainty...

High variability in wind direction thru at least 01Z due to the
tstms in the area.

.OUTLOOK FOR 00Z FRIDAY THROUGH MONDAY... 

Thursday night-Sunday: VFR. 

Monday: Morning -shra and MVFR possible, otherwise mainly VFR.

Detailed information, including hourly TAF wind component forecasts, 
can be found at: https:/www.weather.gov/zny/n90

&&

.MARINE...
The pressure gradient will be rather weak through early next
week. Conditions on the waters are expected to remain below 
small craft advisory (SCA) thresholds.

&&

.HYDROLOGY...
WPC has the area under a marginal risk of excessive rainfall
through Thursday. Weak steering winds and PW values around 2 
inches will produce localized heavy rainfall with the potential
for instances of isolated flash flooding. Overall, basin 
averaged rainfall amounts are less than an inch.

Otherwise, there are no significant hydrological concerns
thereafter through early next week.

&&

.TIDES/COASTAL FLOODING...
For Thursday, a moderate risk for the development of rip 
currents is forecast at the New York City ocean beaches, with a 
low risk at the Nassau and Suffolk counties beaches.

For Friday there is a low risk for the development of rip
currents at all the ocean beaches.

&&

.OKX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CT...Air Quality Alert until 11 PM EDT this evening for CTZ005>007.
NY...None.
NJ...None.
MARINE...None.

&&

$$

SYNOPSIS...MET/DW
NEAR TERM...DW
SHORT TERM...DW
LONG TERM...MET
AVIATION...JMC/JC
MARINE...MET/DW
HYDROLOGY...MET/DW
TIDES/COASTAL FLOODING...
