926 
FXUS61 KOKX 312057
AFDOKX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service New York NY
357 PM EST Fri Jan 31 2025

.SYNOPSIS...
Low pressure shifts through the region tonight, followed by high 
pressure through Saturday night. A warm front then approaches on 
Sunday and passes through during Sunday night. The trailing cold
front from this low pressure system passing to the north will 
pass through Monday night, followed by high pressure through early
Wednesday. Another frontal system will then impact the area later
on Wednesday into Thursday. High pressure is expected to follow 
on Friday. 

&&

.NEAR TERM /UNTIL 6 AM SATURDAY MORNING/...
A mid-level trough will help push a broad area of low pressure 
through the forecast area tonight. Upward forcing associated with 
the low, including synoptic scale lift from an upper jet streak will 
bring rain across the area. The higher rain amounts will be 
generally east of the city. The rain will likely shift offshore by 
the end of the night, but cannot completely rule out the chance of 
brief light snow or even freezing drizzle well north of the city 
after midnight as the precip comes to an end.

Another issue is the fog. Light winds and small dewpoint 
depressions will lead to areas of fog mainly away from the city. 
Patchy dense fog will be possible mainly north of the city until 
winds can shift more northerly tonight and usher in lower dewpoint 
air. Could need at least a special weather statement for this.

&&

.SHORT TERM /6 AM SATURDAY MORNING THROUGH SUNDAY NIGHT/...
High pressure will be building in out of Canada through the day 
Saturday, bringing in a colder air mass. It'll be sunny, and high 
temperatures will be slightly below normal in the 30s across the 
area. Breezy conditions, particularly in the morning will add to the 
chill, making it feel like it's only in the 20s.

Winds then diminish Saturday night as the center of high pressure 
shifts to our north and the pressure gradient weakens. Mainly clear 
conditions and light to calm winds will allow for radiational 
cooling, with low temperatures dropping into the single digits 
across the northernmost zones. Teens for most other locations, 
except low 20s in the city.

For Sunday, looks like it should be dry most of the day. Overrunning 
precip will however advance from the west ahead of a warm front. 
This front is in association with a quick-moving low pressure system 
well to our north. Snow will be possible towards late in the day 
north of the city. Snow chances then become more likely Sunday night 
north of the city as the warm front moves through, with the highest 
chances being over SE CT. Looks like it should be coming to an end 
by the time a warm nose pushing in could result in a wintry mix late 
at night. Snow amounts of an inch or less anticipated - highest 
generally across the northernmost zones. For the city, LI and the 
urban corridor of NE NJ, precip chances are capped at chance, and it 
should be warm enough for rain during the whole event. 

&&

.LONG TERM /MONDAY THROUGH FRIDAY/...
A nearly zonal flow will feature some timing issues with a midweek 
storm system that will impact the area. The latter of which will be 
driven by kink in the flow late in the week as an amplifying 
shortwave trough drops across the Great Lakes Thursday and across 
the Northeast on Friday. Before then though, a cold front will pass 
through the area Monday night as low pressure passes well to the 
north. This looks to be uneventful with perhaps an isolated shower. 
More importantly, it will return the area to temperatures closer to 
normal for early February and potentially set the stage for some 
wintry weather later in the week. High pressure briefly returns 
Tuesday into early Wednesday.

Where there are issues that still need to be resolved are with low 
pressure emerging from the Central Plains midweek and the 
overrunning precipitations that breaks out well in advance of the 
associated warm front. The parent low likely tracks west of the area 
with warm air surging in aloft and snow or a rain/snow mix the onset 
that goes over to rain Wednesday night. A confluent flow between the 
two branches of the polar jet lifts out to the northeast on 
Wednesday. How quickly that happens will determine the extent of 
cold air and how quickly it erodes. There is high confidence that 
enough warm air moves in aloft for a changeover to rain, but an 
extended period of freezing rain is possible north and west of the 
NYC metro Wednesday night. The NBM still is showing quite a 
temperature spread for the midweek system with box and whisker plots 
showing as much as 20 degree spreads between the 25th and 75th 
percentiles. The deterministic is very close to the median during 
this time. Expect all rains on Thursday before it comes to an end 
late Thursday night following a cold frontal passage. Temperatures 
in the warm sector Thursday may get into the 50s, but falling back 
into the 40s Friday. Thus, a period of quickly changing weather. 

&&

.AVIATION /21Z FRIDAY THROUGH WEDNESDAY/...
Low pressure approaches from the west this evening with a warm front 
over the coast. A cold front moves through tonight. High pressure 
builds in on Saturday.

Widespread IFR conditions will persist this afternoon and tonight. 
Coastal terminals like KISP, KHPN, KGON, and KJFK may be LIFR for 
much of the time as well. There may be some localized brief 
improvements in flight categories this evening, but largely 
expecting IFR/LIFR the rest of the afternoon and evening. Categories 
improve to MVFR before 12Z Saturday then VFR from 12-15Z from west 
to east.

Intermittent light rain possible through this afternoon. More 
widespread rain expected this evening, mainly after 22-00Z and 
through tonight, mainly before 6Z. Rain comes to an end from west to 
east from 5-9Z. KSWF may briefly mix with -SN before ending.  

Winds this afternoon/early evening will be S to SW under 10 kts, 
with some locations being light and variable. Wind will become NW 
and increase late tonight to near 10kt. Winds by Saturday morning 
will be NW 10-15 kt with gusts upwards of 25kt. Some gusts upwards 
of 30kt possible before gusts end from around 22Z Saturday.

 ...NY Metro (KEWR/KLGA/KJFK/KTEB) TAF Uncertainty...

Amendments likely for timing of category changes and onset/ending of 
rain possible through the night. 

.OUTLOOK FOR 21Z SATURDAY THROUGH WEDNESDAY...

Saturday PM: VFR. NW winds 10-15G20-25kt. Some gusts to 30kt 
possible. Gusts ending by evening.

Sunday: VFR during the day, a chance of MVFR or lower conditions at 
night in rain and/or snow.

Monday: VFR.

Tuesday: VFR. 

Wednesday: MVFR or lower in rain or snow showers.

Detailed information, including hourly TAF wind component forecasts, 
can be found at: https:/www.weather.gov/zny/n90

&&

.MARINE...
Will need to monitor for the potential of a dense fog advisory at 
least during the evening hours tonight based on local weather cams 
and with the expectation that winds won't increase and shift north 
until the overnight hours. Otherwise, the SCA has been extended on 
the ocean into Saturday night as a lingering swell is expected to 
keep seas elevated. Elsewhere, have issued a SCA for the daytime 
Saturday for gusty northerly winds as building high pressure causes 
a tightening pressure gradient. Sub-advisory conditions then prevail 
for Sunday through Wednesday. The only exception would be marginal
SCA gusts on the ocean possible ahead of a cold front Monday and
behind it Monday night into Tuesday.

&&

.HYDROLOGY...
There are no hydrologic concerns at this time.

&&

.OKX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CT...None.
NY...None.
NJ...None.
MARINE...Small Craft Advisory from 6 AM to 6 PM EST Saturday for ANZ331-
     332-335-338-340-345.
     Small Craft Advisory until 6 AM EST Sunday for ANZ350-353.
     Small Craft Advisory until 1 AM EST Sunday for ANZ355.

&&

$$

SYNOPSIS...JC/DW
NEAR TERM...JC
SHORT TERM...JC
LONG TERM...DW
AVIATION...MW
MARINE...DW/MW
HYDROLOGY...DW/MW
