204 
FXUS61 KOKX 261446
AFDOKX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service New York NY
1046 AM EDT Wed Mar 26 2025

.SYNOPSIS...
Low pressure passes to the east this morning, followed by a weak 
cold front late this afternoon. High pressure then builds in 
from the southwest tonight into Thursday, passing to the south 
Thursday night as a weak frontal system passes to the north. A 
warm front approaches from the southwest on Friday and will 
remain in close proximity through the first part of next week. A
series of disturbances will develop along the boundary to the 
west as a warm front lifts north of the area Sunday night into 
Monday. The trailing cold front sweeps through Monday night into
Tuesday. High pressure builds into the area Tuesday.

&&

.NEAR TERM /THROUGH TONIGHT/...
Amplified upper trough extending from the Great Lakes south 
into the Mid Atlantic translates east through tonight. This 
kicks low pressure further out to sea with some partial 
clearing expected late this morning before the upper trough 
axis moves into the area. A weak cold front moves through into 
late day and may help instigate a few showers in the afternoon 
or early evening. Wet bulb temps in the 30s could even allow for
a few flakes to mix in across some of the higher elevations 
well north and west of the NYC. Regardless, expect no more than 
a few hundredths of an inch of liquid equivalent. 

Westerly winds become gusty this afternoon, but not as strong 
as on Tuesday. Gusts will continue into the night, but less 
frequent, as winds veer to the NW in weak cold advection.

Highs today will be closer to normal in the upper 40s to lower 
50s, with overnight lows a few degrees below normal in the upper
20s to mid 30s.

&&

.SHORT TERM /THURSDAY THROUGH FRIDAY/...
For Thursday, deepening low pressure across the Canadian Maritimes
and high pressure nosing in from the southwest will keep conditions
dry with winds gusts up to 20 mph possible. Highs will be similar
in the upper 40s to lower 50s. 

As the upper trough continues to translate offshore with warm
advection on the backside, a weak warm front and/or trough
passes through Thursday evening. Have kept it dry at this time 
but some of the guidance hints at a sprinkle and/or brief 
shower possible. Confidence is too low at this time to mention 
in forecast products. 

Friday will be considerably warmer in the upper 50s to lower 60s
in a W/SW flow. However, at this time of the year any southerly
component will keep immediate coastal locations cooler with
water temperatures in the 40s.

&&

.LONG TERM /FRIDAY NIGHT THROUGH TUESDAY/...
Unsettled conditions are possible for much of the period as a 
complex frontal system approaches Friday night and remain over or 
near the area through the first part of next week. 

POPs increase Friday night as a warm front approaches and lifts 
north across the region. The latest 00z forecast guidance now has 
the front lifting far enough north, that the local area remain dry 
for much of Saturday. In addition, with the area in warm sector, 
unseasonable warmth is forecast with highs ranging from the middle 
60s to lower and middle 70s across much of the area. Coastal 
locations may remain slightly cooler.

A series of shortwaves and associated low pressure systems will 
travel along this frontal boundary, bringing increased chances for 
rain showers Saturday night through Monday. A lot will depend on 1- 
how far north the warm front remains and 2- the timing of each wave 
along this frontal boundary. Overall, will cap POPs at high end 
chance to cover the uncertainty. By Monday night into early Tuesday 
morning, the entire complex frontal system and any subsequent waves 
of low pressure should progress off the coast with a drier NNW flow 
building into the area. Some of the forecast guidance is hinting at 
another wave of low pressure developing along the cold front, which 
could linger some precipitation into the day Tuesday. Will keep some 
slight chance POPs in the forecast. With a colder NW flow in place, 
some northern locations may see the precipitation end as a few snow 
showers. 

Overall forecast confidence is below average through the entire long 
term period with multiple questions around frontal boundary 
positioning, and mid level shortwave timing inconsistencies.

&&

.AVIATION /15Z WEDNESDAY THROUGH SUNDAY/...
A weak cold front or surface trough passes through this afternoon
into early evening.

VFR. Still a chance of -shra this afternoon, but would likely 
not cause any MVFR conditions. Winds vary mostly WNW to WSW 
through the afternoon before becoming more NW this evening. 
Gusts 20-25kt during the afternoon.

 ...NY Metro (KEWR/KLGA/KJFK/KTEB) TAF Uncertainty... 

Low chance of vsbys briefly reduced to 3-5SM in any showers.

Gusts may be occasional than frequent this afternoon.

.OUTLOOK FOR 12Z THURSDAY THROUGH SUNDAY...

Thursday: VFR.

Friday: VFR. W wind gusts 15-20 kt.

Saturday: VFR during the day, MVFR possible at night. E to SE wind 
gusts 15 to 20 kt. 

Sunday: MVFR or lower possible in light rain. E to SE wind gusts 15 
to 20 kt.

Detailed information, including hourly TAF wind component forecasts, 
can be found at: https:/www.weather.gov/zny/n90

&&

.MARINE...
While sub-SCA conditions are forecast through Friday, there is
a chance for marginal SCA conditions on the ocean in a NW flow 
late tonight into Thursday morning, and again Thursday night
into Friday morning in a westerly flow. 

Small craft conditions remain possible this weekend into early next 
week with seas on the ocean hovering around 5ft. Winds gusts are
likely to remain below 25 kt for much of the weekend. A better 
chance for SCA conditions will be Sunday night into next week 
as a frontal system moves across the area waters. Low pressure 
offshore may keep seas elevated for the first half of next week.

&&

.FIRE WEATHER...
Gusty west winds the next couple of afternoons, low fuel
moisture, and lowering minimum RH values into Thursday raises
some concern for elevated wildfire should any fire be ignited.
Land managers will be contacted to collaborate on any need
headlines.

&&

.HYDROLOGY...
No hydrologic impacts are expected through the upcoming weekend.

&&

.OKX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CT...None.
NY...None.
NJ...None.
MARINE...None.

&&

$$

SYNOPSIS...BC/DR/DW
NEAR TERM...DR/DW
SHORT TERM...DW
LONG TERM...BC
AVIATION...BC/JC
MARINE...BC/DW
FIRE WEATHER...
HYDROLOGY...BC/DW
