133 
FXUS61 KOKX 220818
AFDOKX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service New York NY
418 AM EDT Tue Apr 22 2025

.SYNOPSIS...
A cold front slowly pushes across today. High pressure gradually
builds tonight into Wednesday and remains in control through 
Thursday night. A frontal system will move across the area late 
Friday into Saturday. High pressure then builds in Sunday into 
Monday. 

&&

.NEAR TERM /THROUGH TONIGHT/...
Other than some clouds this morning along a cold front, expect more 
in the way of sunshine for the late morning and afternoon. It will 
be a fantastic spring day with above normal temperatures. The 
question for today's forecast is how much to go above guidance in 
terms of temperatures? NWP global guidance has 5 kft temperatures 
hovering around 10 C with a W to WSW flow throughout the column. 
Steep lapse rates will lead to excellent mixing, especially from the 
sfc to 5-6 kft. A cold front moves into the area and sort of washes 
out to a degree. Therefore not expecting much if any wind direction 
shift. A W to WSW flow should be maintained with neutral advection. 
This should lead to warmer than normal temperatures, even for 
coastal sections. This should lead to widespread middle and upper 
70s, with only perhaps the south fork of LI with some localized 60s 
right at the waterfront. A few spots in NE NJ could very well get to 
80 for max temperatures.

For tonight under clear skies look for a fairly mild night. There 
really won't be that much of an airmass change with what's left of a 
cold front slowly sliding through. Under mostly clear skies with 
high pressure slowly beginning it build from the west look for light 
winds and near normal to slightly above normal temperatures. Lows 
should range from the middle 40s in far NW interior sections, to the 
middle 50s across the metro.

&&

.SHORT TERM /WEDNESDAY THROUGH THURSDAY/...
High pressure is expected to settle nearby for mid week. This should 
lead to large scale subsidence overall. The upper level jet is 
progged to remain over Northern New England and into the Saint 
Lawrence River Valley up to the north. With the area on the southern 
side of the polar jet temperatures should continue to run above 
normal temperatures wise, especially during the day Wednesday. A 
deep layer W to NW flow should preclude the formation of strong sea 
breeze development. Although, by late in the afternoon on Wednesday 
there may be some localized sea breeze development for a few coastal 
locations. Maximum temperatures once again on Wednesday should get 
well into the 70s in most places, with perhaps a few 60s across some 
eastern coastal communities.

High pressure settles over the area Wednesday night with mostly 
clear skies and light winds. Temperatures are expected to bottom out 
in the 40s in the outlying areas, with some lower and middle 50s 
across the metro.

High pressure slowly gets further east on Thursday. A return flow of 
shorts will attempt to set up. With the synoptic flow expected to be 
fairly light, look for a hybrid sea breeze to develop with a 
southerly flow off the cooler ocean during the day. By late in the 
afternoon a wide spread in temperatures should be anticipated, with 
mainly 60s and a few middle and upper 50s across coastal and eastern 
coastal sections, with 70s across western and interior locations. 
Temperatures are expected to be considerably cooler across eastern 
coastal sections for the late day and early evening with a wind off 
the colder ocean.

&&

.LONG TERM /THURSDAY NIGHT THROUGH MONDAY/...
Global models continue to fluctuate with the timing of the frontal 
system for late Friday into Saturday. The 00Z GFS is the fastest of 
the globals, by about 12h. The GEFs supports a slower solution like 
the model consenus. The timing seems to hinge on the complex 
interaction of southern branch PAC NW energy and multiple pieces of 
northern branch energy dropping across central Canada toward the end 
of this week. Plan to stay close to the NBM during this time. 

High pressure offshore at the start of this period will continue to 
retreat out into the Atlantic while the aforementioned frontal 
system brings a chance of showers into the area Friday afternoon 
with the most likely timeframe after midnight Friday through the day 
on Saturday. Marginal instability could result in isolated 
thunderstorm north and west of the NYC metro Saturday afternoon. 
However, onshore flow and weak lapse rates should limit coverage. 
High pressure then builds in from the west Sunday into Monday. 

Temperatures remain above normal through Saturday, warmest Thursday 
night through Friday night (5 to 10 degrees). A return closer to 
normal is expected Sunday into Monday behind the frontal system.

&&

.AVIATION /08Z TUESDAY THROUGH SATURDAY/...
A weak warm front lifts across the area this morning, while the 
trailing cold front dissipates across the area. A secondary cold 
front pushes through Tuesday evening.

NYC terminals have generally been VFR through 08Z. However, like the 
other terminals, do expect a period of MVFR with occasional IFR 
conditions through about 14Z, followed by improvement to VFR. KGON 
may take as long as 17Z to improve to VFR. Isolated SHRA through 
about 10Z.

Light and variable winds across all but KISP, where it will start 
off SSW 5-10kt. Winds veer to the SW toward daybreak with the warm 
frontal passage, then veer to the W-WSW by late morning/early 
afternoon. KBDR and KGON may hold on to a hybrid seabreeze out of 
the SW until winds veer more in the afternoon ahead of an 
approaching secondary cold front. Winds then become NW-NNW 5-10kt 
after 00Z.

There is a brief chance of SW LLWS at the eastern terminals through 
about 09Z, with 2Kft winds 230 at around 40 kt. 

 ...NY Metro (KEWR/KLGA/KJFK/KTEB) TAF Uncertainty...

Best chance of showers to the east of NYC terminals.

IFR conditions could become prevailing through about 12Z.

Onset of W gusts later this morning may be delayed by 1-2 hours.

.OUTLOOK FOR 08Z WEDNESDAY THROUGH SATURDAY...

Late Tuesday night through Thursday: VFR.

Friday: VFR during the day. A chance of MVFR and showers, at night.

Saturday: MVFR or lower in showers. An isolated thunderstorm is 
possible.

Detailed information, including hourly TAF wind component forecasts, 
can be found at: https:/www.weather.gov/zny/n90

&&

.MARINE...
There could be a few gusts to around 20 kt with a few marginal small 
craft gusts on some of the eastern and south shore bays of LI today, 
otherwise sub advisory conditions will prevail through Thursday 
night. Conditions are expected to remain below SCA levels through 
Friday in a weak pressure regime. The next chance for SCA conditions
will be Friday night into Saturday with a frontal system moving
across the waters.

&&

.HYDROLOGY...
At this time there are no hydrologic concerns through early next
week.

&&

.OKX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CT...None.
NY...None.
NJ...None.
MARINE...None.

&&

$$

SYNOPSIS...JE/DW
NEAR TERM...JE
SHORT TERM...JE
LONG TERM...DW
AVIATION...DW
MARINE...JE/DW
HYDROLOGY...JE/DW
