987 
FXUS61 KOKX 172351
AFDOKX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service New York NY
751 PM EDT Sat May 17 2025

.SYNOPSIS...
A cold front moves across the area this evening. Low pressure
slowly moves across New England on Sunday sending a series of 
surface troughs across the area. The low slowly exits the New 
England coast on Monday as high pressure gradually builds in 
from the northwest through Tuesday. Another frontal system
impacts the area Wednesday into Thursday, then exits northeast 
into Friday.

&&

.NEAR TERM /UNTIL 6 AM SUNDAY MORNING/...
Vertically stacked low pressure over the Great Lakes region 
will send a cold front across the area this evening. This cold
front is now approaching the CWA with a broken line of showers.
Middle level drying has taken place behind a departing surface 
trough and weakening convective shortwave aloft. Instability is
now begininng to drop with the loss of daytime heating. HOwever,
there is no organized trigger to develop new convection until 
the actual cold front enters the area. A few showers or 
thunderstorms are possible as the cold front crosses the area 
this evening. The higher probabilities for showers/storms 
continue to be across the Lower Hudson Valley and potentially 
interior SW CT. Locations closer to the coast may largely stay 
dry with just an isolated shower/storm possible. 

SPC still has a marginal risk in place for the entire CWA. 
If a severe thunderstorm occurs, it will be isolated and should
be north and west of the NYC metro. The main threat is from 
damaging wind gusts. Loss of daytime heating after sunset should
limit the already low risk for a severe storm.

The cold front will continue moving offshore through midnight.
This which will bring an end to the shower/storm potential. The
flow behind the front will become W allowing drier air to work 
into the area. The drier air will prevent low cloud and fog 
development and lead to a mostly clear overnight once any 
lingering mid and high clouds depart overnight. Lows look to 
fall into the lower to middle 50s inland and the upper 50s to 
around 60 close to the coast.

&&

.SHORT TERM /6 AM SUNDAY MORNING THROUGH MONDAY NIGHT/...
The low pressure system will slowly move across New England on 
Sunday. High pressure will be located well to our west with the
area under the influence of cyclonic flow at the surface and 
aloft. Sunday should start out mostly sunny before becoming 
mostly cloudy into the afternoon. The lingering cold pocket 
aloft may be enough to generate a few brief showers across the 
interior in the afternoon and evening. The pressure gradient 
will steepen through the afternoon as thew low begins pushing 
towards the Canadian Maritimes. This will set the stage for 
gusty W winds, 25 to 30 mph, especially in the afternoon and 
early evening. High temperatures will be close to seasonable 
levels in the upper 60s and lower 70s. 

The low will only slowly move east Sunday night and may become 
nearly stationary near the Maritimes Monday and Monday night.
High pressure slowly builds towards the region during this time
frame. The region will lie between the two systems which will 
allow breezy W-NW winds to continue through Monday. Gusts on 
Monday are likely to be similar to those on Sunday and generally
25-30 mph. Temperatures will also be similar to those observed 
on Sunday. The atmosphere continues to dry out Sunday night 
through Monday with the anticipation of skies becoming mostly 
clear to start next week.

&&

.LONG TERM /TUESDAY THROUGH SATURDAY/...
Key Message:

 * A frontal system may will bring rainfall Wednesday & Thursday, 
   possibly into Friday. 

High pressure on Tuesday will gradually break down into Tuesday 
night ahead of an approaching frontal system. Overall, it should be 
a pleasant day with highs in the mid-60s to low-70s. Mostly sunny to 
start with increasing clouds in the afternoon and evening. Overcast 
skies will lead to less efficient radiational cooling Tuesday night 
with lows in the mid-50s to upper-40s. 

Most 12Z guidance has honed in on a time frame for impacts from a 
frontal system, but track still varies somewhat. A low over KY/OH 
late Tuesday will approach the area Tuesday night and pass near or 
to the south of the area Wednesday into Thursday, pushing more north 
and/or east of the area on Friday. This will bring a period of wet 
weather. Given elevated PWATs and ample lift, there is a chance for 
a period of moderate rainfall. With some hints at marginal 
instability, a few isolated thunderstorms may occur on Wednesday. 
Confidence in showers is higher by midday Wednesday into Thursday 
afternoon, but confidence is lower Thursday night and especially 
Friday as some models have the low lingering in the area a little 
longer, while others bring the low to a quick exit. 

Overall, temperatures will be near or slightly below normal levels 
Tuesday through Friday.

&&

.AVIATION /23Z SATURDAY THROUGH THURSDAY/...
A cold front exits the region late this evening.

VFR tonight. There remains a low chance of isolated SHRA or TSRA 
until 02Z with confidence of occurrence remaining low.

Mainly VFR with some MVFR cigs possible tomorrow for northern 
terminals. VFR categories are expected for most terminals. Isolated 
SHRA can't be ruled out, but shouldn't be impactful and is not 
included in TAFs.

With the cold frontal passage late this evening winds shift to the 
W/NW, with gusts ensuing late tonight. Gusts lock in  during the day 
Sunday with upwards of 30kt gusts possible, especially for Sunday 
afternoon and evening.

 ...NY Metro (KEWR/KLGA/KJFK/KTEB) TAF Uncertainty...

Low shower and thunderstorm chances this evening.

.OUTLOOK FOR 00Z MONDAY THROUGH THURSDAY...

Sunday night: Mainly VFR. Slight chance of showers early inland
with MVFR possible. W winds G20-30kt.

Monday - Tuesday: VFR. Monday NW winds G20-25kt day into evening.

Wednesday: MVFR or lower with showers likely, especially in the 
afternoon, a slight chance of thunderstorms in the afternoon. E wind 
gusts 15-20kt.

Thursday: MVFR or lower possible in showers.

Detailed information, including hourly TAF wind component forecasts, 
can be found at: https:/www.weather.gov/zny/n90

&&

.MARINE...
Conditions on the waters through tonight will remain below SCA 
levels. An increasing pressure gradient on Sunday will promote
gusty W flow and gusts 25-30 kt. Winds will likely become NW 
Sunday night and continue to gust 25-30 kt. Have therefore 
extended the SCA on Sunday through Sunday night. The gusty winds
should continue on Monday with a further extension of the SCA 
probable. Winds weaken Monday evening bringing gusts below 25 
kt. Ocean seas build to marginal SCA levels Sunday and Sunday 
night and then slowly subside Monday and Monday night. 

Winds and seas remain below advisory levels on all the forecast 
waters Tuesday into early Wednesday. 

With the approach of a frontal system Wednesday, easterly flow
will be increasing. By late day, SCA conditions may develop on 
the ocean waters. With the increased and persistent east flow 
into Thursday, winds and seas on the ocean waters will likely be
at SCA levels. As low pressure tracks northeast of the area 
Thursday night a northerly flow develops and winds diminish. 
However, ocean seas are likely to remain elevated into Thursday 
night.

&&

.HYDROLOGY...
There are no hydrologic concerns through next week.

&&

.OKX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CT...None.
NY...None.
NJ...None.
MARINE...Small Craft Advisory from 6 AM Sunday to 6 AM EDT Monday for 
     ANZ331-332-335-338-340-345-350-353-355.

&&

$$

SYNOPSIS...BR/DS
NEAR TERM...BR/DS
SHORT TERM...DS
LONG TERM...BR
AVIATION...JE
MARINE...BR/DS
HYDROLOGY...BR/DS
