477 
FXUS61 KOKX 201029
AFDOKX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service New York NY
529 AM EST Thu Feb 20 2025

.SYNOPSIS...
Low pressure off the Carolina coast deepens as it tracks well east 
of the area into tonight. Thereafter, sprawling high pressure over 
the mid section of the country builds in through the weekend, 
remaining in control through Monday. A weak low pressure system 
passes to our north Monday night into Tuesday. High pressure builds 
back in for Wednesday.

&&

.NEAR TERM /THROUGH TONIGHT/...
A 1000 mb surface low off Cape Hatteras deepens as it pulls off
to the north and east through tonight. Meanwhile, an upper low 
swings over the region into this evening, with a weak inverted 
surface trough extending back toward the region from the exiting
low.

Temperatures remain 10 to 15 degrees below normal for late February, 
the morning starts out in the teens and low 20s across the 
region, with highs this afternoon expected to remain below the 
freezing mark, ranging from the mid 20s inland, to around 30 at 
the coast. A high cloud canopy thickens and lowers into late 
day.

As the upper low swings through, steepening lapse rates and a 
moistening column down to the sub cloud layer should instigate
snow shower development late this afternoon and evening. QPF is 
light, under a tenth of an inch everywhere, closer to several 
hundredths. Still, with the cold air mass entrenched, and SLRs 
progged around 15:1, the snow could stick and accumulate 
relatively efficiently if/where it does fall. With such little 
liquid equivalent to work with though, amounts should be limited,
likely at or under half an inch. Localized amounts could approach
an inch, which remains a possible solution should coverage be a
bit more persistent as some hi res guidance is hinting. While 
not a particularly notable event based on amounts, the expected 
timing of this activity, in the late afternoon and early 
evening, could pose some travel impacts and slick spots to the 
PM rush. Still, some locales may not see any snow whatsoever, or
just a few flurries, largely staying dry and overcast instead, 
especially into interior southern CT.

Clouds begin to thin out regardless overnight as the upper low 
shifts offshore and drier air works in. Flow increases as the 
exiting surface low deepens and tightens the pressure gradient 
locally, which should preclude decoupling regionwide. Overnight 
lows range from the teens inland, to lower 20s along the coast.

&&

.SHORT TERM /FRIDAY THROUGH FRIDAY NIGHT/...
Sprawling 1040 mb high pressure across the mid section of the 
country builds into the area on Friday. 

Blustery NW flow persists with the pressure gradient between 
the building high and exited offshore low, and gusts toward 30 
mph are expected much of the day, adding a chill to the already 
below normal temperatures. Some coastal locales may sneak above 
the freezing mark by a degree or two in the afternoon, otherwise,
upper 20s to around 30.

Flow relaxes into Friday night as the high builds closer, and 
mostly clear skies prevail as temperatures fall into the teens 
overnight.

&&

.LONG TERM /SATURDAY THROUGH WEDNESDAY/...
The upper flow will be mainly zonal Saturday into Sunday night, with 
a very weak, low amplitude, trough moving through Saturday night 
with surface low pressure passing well to the north, as high 
pressure remains in control, centered to the south. With little 
upper support and little moisture no precipitation is expected.

A more amplified trough, accompanied with a vort max, passes mainly 
to the north Monday night, quickly followed by another trough and 
vort max for Tuesday. With some uncertainty with the timing and 
strength of this trough, have only slight chance probabilities Monday 
night through Tuesday. Zonal flow returns for Wednesday. With mild 
air in the area, with temperatures 5 to 10 degrees above normal 
Monday night through Wednesday, the precipitation will be mainly 
light rain showers, with light snow showers inland.

&&

.AVIATION /12Z THURSDAY THROUGH MONDAY/...
Low pressure passes well south and east of the area through 
Thursday. An upper level low will cross the area Thursday evening 
and will bring scattered snow showers to the terminals. High 
pressure builds in late Thursday night.

VFR through most of the TAF period as high clouds remain overnight. 
A mid deck then overspreads the region and lowers through Thursday. 
Prob30 for light snow showers after 22z Thursday with MVFR possible. 
However, the snow could be more widespread and may need to be placed 
in a brief TEMPO or prevailing in upcoming forecasts. Around half an 
inch of snow or less is possible.

Winds NW-N overnight at 10 kt or less. Winds then shift to the NW 
Thursday at 10 to 15 kt with gusts to around 25 kt by the late 
afternoon, generally after 22Z. An isolated gust to 30 kt is 
possible. Gusts continue overnight.

 ...NY Metro (KEWR/KLGA/KJFK/KTEB) TAF Uncertainty...

No unscheduled amendments are expected. 

.OUTLOOK FOR 06Z FRIDAY THROUGH MONDAY...

Late Thursday Night: Snow showers ending, becoming VFR. NW winds G20-
25kt at night.

Friday: VFR. NW winds G20-25 kt.

Saturday and Sunday: VFR. 

Monday...Mainly A slight chance of MVFR in rain/snow showers at 
night.

Detailed information, including hourly TAF wind component forecasts, 
can be found at: https:/www.weather.gov/zny/n90

&&

.MARINE...
Lighter winds and seas maintain sub Small Craft Advisory (SCA) 
conditions on all waters today. By this evening, increasing flow
behind passing low pressure well offshore returns SCA conditions
to all waters as NW gusts 25 to 30 kt develop tonight and persist
thru Friday. Seas on the ocean build toward 5 to 7 ft during this
time as well. Winds are expected to lighten below advisory criteria
Friday evening on non ocean waters, and by Friday night on the 
ocean.

Sub advisory conditions then prevail Saturday through Monday, 
however, Saturday night gusts on the ocean waters may briefly 
near SCA levels as low pressure passes well to the north and W 
to SW winds increase. A persist WSW flow Sunday night into 
Monday night will allow ocean seas to build and by late Monday 
night into Tuesday seas may reach 5 to 6 feet.

&&

.HYDROLOGY...
No hydrologic impacts are expected through the middle of next week.

&&

.OKX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CT...None.
NY...None.
NJ...None.
MARINE...Small Craft Advisory from 6 PM this evening to 6 PM EST Friday 
     for ANZ331-332-335-338-340-345-350-353-355.

&&

$$

SYNOPSIS...DR/MET
NEAR TERM...DR
SHORT TERM...DR
LONG TERM...MET
AVIATION...MET
MARINE...DR/MET
HYDROLOGY...DR/MET
