120 
FXUS61 KOKX 311423
AFDOKX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service New York NY
1023 AM EDT Mon Mar 31 2025

.SYNOPSIS...
A warm front lifts north of the area this morning. Low pressure
passing through southern Quebec will drag a cold front toward 
the area late today into tonight. High pressure will ten builds 
southeast toward the area Tuesday into Tuesday night, and pass 
east on Wednesday. A warm front will approach Wednesday night 
and move across early Thursday. A cold front will then approach,
moving across Thursday night. The front will slow down to the 
south Friday, eventually returning back north into the area for 
the weekend.

&&

.NEAR TERM /THROUGH TONIGHT/...
Warm front remains south of Newark but was through LaGuardia 
and most of southwestern Connecticut. North of the front patchy
dense fog remains along with widespread fog of 1/2 to 2 miles
visibility. The Dense Fog Advisory was allowed to expire.

Have updated temps go go warmer mainly west of the Hudson based
on latest LAMP/HRRR guidance, with highs in the lower/mid 70s 
now expected for areas from NYC north/west. Elsewhere a gusty S 
flow should help temps warm up into the 60s. 

In the overall warm advection well ahead of the front skies 
should remain mostly cloudy and there could be sct showers at
any time especially by this afternoon. Air mass destabilizes 
this afternoon especially across from interior northern NJ and 
points SW, with tstms possible, some of which could produce 
locally damaging wind gusts and some hail. Air mass looks more 
primed just west of the CWA. The slight risk was extended
eastward and encompasses northeastern New Jersey, the Lower
Hudson Valley, New York City and Nassau county, along with
portions of Fairfield county, and far western Suffolk county.

NSSL CAM's show cluster of storms moving from northern NJ and 
parts of the lower Hudson Valley toward the NYC metro area and 
SW CT late today into early this evening. East of there more 
marine influence via S flow should lessen the svr threat, though
there should be enough elevated instability and lift ahead of 
the front for widespread moderate to locally heavy showers and 
chance of tstms anywhere in the CWA going into tonight. 

Cold front passes through mainly late tonight, with gusty NW
flow in its wake and precip ending from W to E. Low temps 
tonight will be in the 40s.

&&

.SHORT TERM /TUESDAY THROUGH WEDNESDAY/...
Post-frontal N-NNW flow ushers in a dry and cooler air mass, 
with highs 55-60 on Tue. Mostly clear skies and light winds will
promote radiational cooling Tue night as the high builds over 
the area, with low temps ranging from the mid 30s in NYC to 
below freezing in most spots outside the metro area, getting as 
low as the mid 20s well inland. 

Wed will remain on the cooler side, with a developing onshore 
flow as the high passes east, and high temps only reaching 50 in
NYC/NE NJ and the mid/upper 40s to the north/east. An
approaching frontal system may bring its first chance of showers
to area well NW of NYC in the afternoon.

&&

.LONG TERM /WEDNESDAY NIGHT THROUGH SUNDAY/...
Periodic slight undulations in otherwise a mainly zonal flow for
the mid levels. These undulations move across the local area 
Thursday through the weekend. These indicate smaller wavelength 
shortwaves within the mid levels that will help provide vertical
synoptic lift.

Wednesday night, mid level ridge axis across the area with 
surface high pressure moving farther east of the region, out 
into the Northern Atlantic. A warm front moves through with 
chances of rain showers across the region. Mid 30s to lower 40s 
for forecast lows Wednesday night. Boundary layer expected to be
just warm enough across the interior to keep this precipitation
event all rain.

Mid levels show a few shortwaves moving across with areas of
positive vorticity advection. Much of the energy though is 
displaced well north of the area. Airmass becomes within warm 
sector Thursday and then a weakening cold front moves across 
Thursday night, slowing down as it moves through. Chances of 
rain showers continue.

The front eventually moves far enough south of the region Friday 
into early Saturday to allow for mainly dry conditions. POPs for
showers significantly lowers during this timeframe. However, 
next system approaching from the west and its subsequent 
evolution will allow for the return northward of this front as a
warm front for Saturday afternoon. Mid levels show an increase 
in shortwave activity for Saturday into Sunday. The forecast 
does not have much progress with the front for remainder of the 
weekend. Therefore, rain showers chances in the forecast remain 
through the remainder of the weekend.

Regarding temperatures, the long term period starts the
moderation of the airmass with lows trending warmer Wednesday 
night compared to the previous night. This will be followed by 
forecast highs Thursday that will be much warmer than those of 
the previous day. Mild above normal temperature continue 
Thursday night and Friday before trending back down Friday night
and Saturday, getting closer to normal values. Temperatures 
forecast thereafter shows a slight trend downward for lows 
Saturday night and a slight trend upward for highs on Sunday.

&&

.AVIATION /12Z MONDAY THROUGH FRIDAY/...
A warm front eventually moves across the terminals through this
morning. This will be followed by a cold front for tonight.

Mainly LIFR to localized VLIFR conditions are expected this
morning. The increase in winds is expected to slightly improve 
conditions for this morning, but still expect mainly LIFR to IFR
conditions. Most visibilities this morning are expected to be 
more IFR to MVFR with the increased wind. Further improvement to
MVFR expected for the afternoon into evening for most terminals
except for CT terminals and KISP, which are expected to 
maintain at best IFR conditions. 

Showers will not have much coverage to start going into this
morning but do expect the shower coverage to increase from west
to east by mid to late this afternoon. Showers are expected for
all terminals for the first half of tonight and for NYC 
terminals as well as terminals to the north and west, there is a
chance of thunderstorms around 22Z to 03Z.

Post cold front tonight, improvement to MVFR expected for all 
terminals with some rain showers lingering around. Further
improvement to VFR expected towards daybreak Tuesday with rain
showers tapering off.

Winds initially variable for most terminals at or less than 5
kts, eventually becoming more southerly near 5-10 kt. S-SW winds
increase late this morning into this afternoon to near 12-15 kt
with gusts 20-25 kt. Winds eventually transition to NW after the
cold front tonight. 

Low level jet already in place with SW winds of 40-50 kt at
2kft. This low level wind shear is forecast to persist for the
rest of this morning into early this afternoon. Low level jet
expected to last through today and this evening at KGON. Other
more southern coastal terminals also get a return of the low
level jet this evening. The evening low level jet will be
similar magnitude and direction as the morning low level jet.

 ...NY Metro (KEWR/KLGA/KJFK/KTEB) TAF Uncertainty... 

Amendments likely to refine timing of categorical changes as 
well as timing of thunderstorms.

Amendments likely to refine timing of SW to NW wind direction 
changes such as with the cold front.

IFR possible at times this afternoon into this evening.

Thunderstorms in the 22Z-03Z time window could have strong gusty
winds and hail.

.OUTLOOK FOR 12Z TUESDAY THROUGH FRIDAY...

Tuesday: MVFR possible early with low chance of rain showers
east of NYC terminals. Otherwise VFR. NW wind gusts around 
20-25 kt during the day.

Wednesday: Mainly VFR during most of the day. MVFR or lower 
possible late afternoon and at night with a chance of showers. 
SE wind gusts 15-20 kt afternoon into evening.

Thursday: MVFR or lower possible with a chance of showers,
eventually becoming likely at night. SW wind gusts 15-20kt, 
highest along the coast day into evening.

Friday: MVFR or lower possible early with a chance of showers.
Mainly VFR afternoon and at night.

Detailed information, including hourly TAF wind component forecasts, 
can be found at: https:/www.weather.gov/zny/n90

&&

.MARINE...
Marine dense fog advisory remains in effect for the western
Sound til 10 AM. Vsbys have improved elsewhere but some patchy
fog may still be around especially this morning. SCA also 
remains in effect for all waters as S flow increases today, with
gusts 25-30 kt and ocean seas building to 5-7 ft. 

A few tstms this evening could produce gusty winds across New
York Harbor, Western Long Island Sound, and the ocean waters
west of Fire Island Inlet.

Potential for any S gales tonight ahead of the approaching 
front appears low as a inversion limits potential for a LLJ 
aloft to mix to the surface, but there could be a post-frontal 
surge of NW-N wind late tonight, with some gusts briefly hitting
35 kt especially on the harbor and ocean. SCA extended into all
of Mon night for all the waters as a result, and into daytime 
Tue for the ocean waters. Some near shore gusts to 25 kt may 
still be possible on NY Harbor daytime Tue as well. Elevated 
ocean seas should linger E of Fire Island Inlet Tue night into 
Wed as winds diminish. 

For long term, regarding wind gusts, probable SCA conditions 
for Thursday and Thursday night, mainly on the ocean. Regarding 
seas and wave heights, SCA conditions are probable much of the 
timeframe for the ocean. Non-ocean zones are below seas/wave SCA
thresholds the whole marine long term period with some possible
SCA wind gusts Thursday into Thursday night. All waters are 
forecast to be below SCA Friday night.

&&

.HYDROLOGY...
Showers and embedded thunderstorms are expected late today into
tonight, with QPF mostly around an inch, but closer to 1.25 inch
across NE where tstm potential will be greater. Main concern
remains localized minor nuisance/urban/poor drainage flooding.

&&

.TIDES/COASTAL FLOODING...
Water levels have been lower than fcst, and with astronomical
tide levels trending slightly lower for tonight, this will 
limit any minor coastal flooding to isolated spots along some 
shoreline locations of the South Shore Bays of Long Island and
the western Long Island Sound shoreline along Southern Fairfield
CT. 

Timing of wind shift compared to time of high tide does not give
much factor to offshore flow. Time before high tides will be 
mostly onshore. Both South Shore Bays and Western Long Island 
Sound will have high tide pass before more continuous gusty NW 
offshore flow gets established.

&&

.OKX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CT...None.
NY...None.
NJ...None.
MARINE...Small Craft Advisory until noon EDT Tuesday for ANZ331-332-335-
     338-340-345.
     Dense Fog Advisory until noon EDT today for ANZ335.
     Small Craft Advisory until 6 PM EDT Tuesday for ANZ350-353-355.

&&

$$

SYNOPSIS...BG/JM
NEAR TERM...BG/MET
SHORT TERM...BG
LONG TERM...JM
AVIATION...JM
MARINE...BG/JM/MET
HYDROLOGY...BG/JM
TIDES/COASTAL FLOODING...
