635 
FXUS61 KOKX 122145 CCA
AFDOKX

Area Forecast Discussion...CORRECTED
National Weather Service New York NY
445 PM EST Sun Jan 12 2025

.SYNOPSIS...
High pressure will gradually weaken and shift more south of the 
waters tonight. A wave of low pressure approaches from SE Canada 
Monday into Monday night. A cold front will pass across the waters
Monday night. Another cold front moves across late Tuesday. High
pressure builds in from the west Tuesday night and remains in 
control through Wednesday night. A frontal system approaches 
from the northwest Thursday and dissipates over the region 
Friday. Another more potent frontal system impacts the region 
next weekend.

&&

.NEAR TERM /UNTIL 6 AM MONDAY MORNING/...
Going into this evening, expecting an overall increase in cloud
coverage.

Jet stream, South Central US through Northeast US, jet winds 
increase through tonight.

For tonight a weak pressure gradient remains as high pressure axis 
moves in and center of high pressure shifts south of the area. The 
center of the high will be moving towards the Southeast US coast.

With mid level ridge axis moving east of the region, more trough 
pattern takes shape. This will lead to decreasing subsidence. Mid 
level low will be approaching from South Central Canada. 

Would expect to have increasing and abundance of clouds coming
over the ridge. While surface light winds will promote more 
radiational cooling, the extra cloud coverage will partially 
mitigate this. 

Have a blend of NBM and MOS consensus for the area low 
temperatures tonight, ranging from lower 20s to lower 30s. This
will make for a less vast range of lows and keep temperatures 
slightly warmer for rural and outlying locations. Dry conditions
expected to prevail.

&&

.SHORT TERM /6 AM MONDAY MORNING THROUGH TUESDAY/...
Jet streak translates close to the region, staying just south of the 
area Monday through Monday night.

Mid level zonal flow expected Monday through Monday night with the 
mid level low moving from near northern Minnesota to the eastern 
Great Lakes.

At the surface, low pressure travels eastward just north of the 
Great Lakes. The low eventually gets to Southern Quebec to near 
Maine by early Tuesday. An associated cold front moves across
the local area Monday night.

High pressure strengthens to the west of the low. The local 
region will have a strengthening pressure gradient between the 
low and high. A gusty WNW to NW flow develops as a result Monday
afternoon into Monday night.

Clouds will increase Monday into Monday night but decrease
later Monday night into Tuesday with surface high pressure
briefly building in. However, the center of the high pressure 
stays well to the south and west of the region. Another cold
front then approaches, moving across late Tuesday. While not
much cloud increase is expected, this front will reinforce the
very cold airmass moving in with strong cold air advection.

Used a blend of MAV and MET MOS guidance and added an extra
degree for the high temperature forecast on Monday. Increasing
WSW flow Monday and higher vertical mixing should allow for a
relatively warmer day than the previous day. Forecast highs
range mainly in the low to mid 40s.

For lows Monday night, took a blend of NBM, consensus of raw
model data, as well as the MAV and MET MOS. While winds staying
up in the boundary layer and some extra clouds may be limiting
factors, there is still increasing cold air advection indicated
by the models. The net result are lows about the same as the 
previous night but wind chills will be much more apparent here.

Tuesday, dry conditions, gusty westerly flow and much colder
than the previous day. Highs only getting to near freezing. 
Tight pressure gradient between low pressure in the Canadian 
Maritimes and high pressure west of the Great Lakes.

&&

.LONG TERM /TUESDAY NIGHT THROUGH SUNDAY/...
Mainly dry conditions for the first part of the long term as high 
pressure builds in at the surface from the Mid-west Tuesday night. 
Meanwhile, a cutoff upper low and associated trough pushes east. A 
surface trough moves through Wednesday. With weak lift, no 
precipitation is expected, just a reinforcing shot of cold air. 
Temperatures through Thursday will be below normal, ranging from the 
upper 20s to just above freezing for high temperatures. 
Additionally, as the surface low associated with the upper low 
deepens offshore and the incoming high also strengthens, conditions 
will be blustery, mainly for Wednesday. NW winds of 10 to around 15 
mph are expected, with gusts 20-30 mph. Combined with the wind, 
temperatures will feel like the teens and 20s during the day on 
Wednesday, and it will feel slightly warmer for Thursday as the wind 
diminish. 

Deep layered riding aloft late Thursday night into Friday morning 
out ahead of an approaching frontal system from central Canada. This 
deep layered ridging aids in the dissipation of the frontal system 
for Friday, with dry conditions continuing, but a SW flow Thursday 
night into Friday morning will allow temperatures to warm to near 
seasonable levels. 

The next chance for widespread precipitation comes next weekend as 
another more potent frontal system impacts the region. As is 
typically the case, there are timing and placement issues with any 
features, so stuck close to NBM. 

&&

.AVIATION /21Z SUNDAY THROUGH FRIDAY/...
VFR as high pressure over the area through tonight slides east on 
Mon. 

Winds in the process of backing WNW-W and diminishing. Winds 
should become SW late tonight, then increase to around or just 
under 10 kt after 14Z Mon. 

 ...NY Metro (KEWR/KLGA/KJFK/KTEB) TAF Uncertainty...

No unscheduled AMD expected.

OUTLOOK FOR 18Z MONDAY THROUGH FRIDAY...

Monday afternoon: VFR. SW winds G20kt. 

Monday night: VFR. Cold fropa early followed by W-NW winds 
G15-20kt.

Tuesday through Wednesday: VFR. NW winds 15G25kt. 

Wednesday night: VFR. NW winds G20kt in the evening. 

Thursday and Friday: VFR.

Detailed information, including hourly TAF wind component
forecasts, can be found at: https:/www.weather.gov/zny/n90

&&

.MARINE...
Sub-SCA conditions continue with the weak pressure gradient across 
the waters tonight into Monday morning. Then chances increase for 
SCA conditions on the ocean Monday afternoon through Monday 
night as pressure gradient tightens between low pressure 
northwest of the region and high pressure southwest of the 
region. Non-ocean waters could also get SCA level wind gusts
Monday night, but felt these may be more marginal and
occasional. Therefore, only have SCA for the ocean Monday
afternoon through Monday night at this time.

For Tuesday, SCA will likely be needed for this day with
widespread 25-30 kt gusts expected for all marine zones.

Widespread SCA wind gusts expected for all marine zones on
Tuesday.

Strong pressure gradient over the waters Tuesday night will likely 
allow SCAs to continue over all waters through much of Wednesday. 
Non-ocean waters may wind gusts fall below 25 kt by sunset Wednesday 
night and ocean waters a few hours later.

Waves on the ocean waters peak Tuesday night at 4 to 7 ft and 4 to 5 
ft over the central sound waters. Waves diminish Wednesday, falling 
below 5 ft over all ocean waters by Wednesday night.

&&

.HYDROLOGY...
Dry conditions continue through Tuesday. No hydrologic problems 
expected.

No hydrologic impacts expected into the beginning of next
weekend.

&&

.OKX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CT...None.
NY...None.
NJ...None.
MARINE...Small Craft Advisory from noon Monday to 6 AM EST Tuesday for 
     ANZ350-353-355.

&&

$$

SYNOPSIS...JM/JP
NEAR TERM...JM
SHORT TERM...JM
LONG TERM...JP
AVIATION...BG
MARINE...JM/JP
HYDROLOGY...JM/JP
