529 
FXUS61 KOKX 152147
AFDOKX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service New York NY
547 PM EDT Sat Mar 15 2025

.SYNOPSIS...
A warm front approaches tonight and lifts across the area Sunday
morning. A strong cold approaches Sunday afternoon and evening and
moves across the region through Monday. High pressure returns 
Tuesday and Wednesday. A fast moving frontal system moves across
the area Thursday into Thursday night. High pressure may return
Friday into next Saturday.

&&

.NEAR TERM /UNTIL 6 AM SUNDAY MORNING/...
Forecast on track this evening. High pressure remains offshore 
through tonight, and weakens somewhat toward morning as a warm 
front approaches from the south. Fog and drizzle are expected to
redevelop tonight, especially with the approach of the warm 
front. While dense fog is not expected at this time, there is a 
possibility of areas of dense fog toward daybreak Sunday 
morning. Lift along with warm front also may bring some light 
rain in addition to the drizzle. Temperatures will be non 
diurnal, lowering this evening, and then rising through the 
remainder of tonight.

&&

.SHORT TERM /6 AM SUNDAY MORNING THROUGH MONDAY/...
A warm front moves north of the region early in the day Sunday,
and with the area warm sectored, once precipitation ends in the
morning, much of the rest of the day will be dry. Temperatures
will be nearly 15 degrees above normal across the region. With a
long southerly fetch low level moisture will be increasing
during the afternoon and into the evening, with precipitable
water values approaching 1 inch late in the day, and nearly 1.5
inches Sunday night, about as high as measured this time of 
year. Increasing lift with a developing pre frontal trough will 
lead to period of moderate to potentially heavy rainfall. Add 
some elevated instability and CAPE along with the lift will 
lead to the potential of isolated thunderstorms inland, while a 
strong marine influence to the east will limit instability. 
Rainfall rates may be near 0.50 inches per hour at times, and 
local flooding of urban and poor drainage areas will be 
possible, and the entire region remains in a marginal risk of 
excessive rainfall, and localized flash flooding cannot be ruled
out especially across the far eastern areas which will see 
higher rainfall totals. These higher totals across the east will
be associated with the slower movement of the pre frontal and 
cold front as waves of low pressure develop as the front moves 
off shore. With the slower movement of the cold front, chances 
of precipitation linger through the day Monday.

&&

.LONG TERM /MONDAY NIGHT THROUGH SATURDAY/...
Key Points

*A few lingering showers possible across eastern Long Island and 
southeast Connecticut Monday evening.

*Dry conditions return late Monday night and should prevail  through 
mid week.

*Another frontal system moves across the area Thursday into Thursday 
night bringing the next chance for showers.

*Temperatures look to average above through Thursday before trending 
near to slightly below normal to end the week.
 
The cold front will continue moving offshore Monday evening. A wave 
of low pressure likely forms on the front which could help linger a 
few showers across eastern Long Island and southeast Connecticut in 
the evening. The front and associated wave should pass far enough 
offshore to bring an end to any showers by midnight across these 
areas. Otherwise, clouds will gradually clear from west to east 
through day break Tuesday. 

The upper trough axis pushes east Tuesday morning as an upper ridge 
builds over the northeast. The trough that passes offshore will 
become a cutoff low over the western Atlantic as it gets trapped 
beneath the upper ridge. The upper ridge will then slowly push east 
through Thursday as the next amplifying upper trough quickly 
approaches. At the surface, high pressure will be in control Tuesday 
and Wednesday. The frontal system associated with the aforementioned 
next upper trough will quickly move across the region Thursday into 
Thursday night. Have held onto a 50 percent chance for showers late 
Thursday/Thursday night as there are still timing and strength 
differences with the system. The NBM probabilities for observing 
greater than 1 inch in a 12 or 24 period have fallen and are now 
generally less than 5 percent, which seems reasonable given the 
progressive nature of the modeled system. 

The front should be offshore to end the week. The associated upper 
trough may become a cutoff low near or just off the New England 
coast late Friday into the first half of the weekend as high 
pressure starts building in from the west. This could create a tight 
pressure gradient and lead to a windy Friday. NBM deterministic 
temperatures have trended cooler for Friday with at least modest 
cold advection and W-NW flow. Depending on how quick the offshore 
upper low departs will determine if the surface high can settle over 
the region next Saturday. Temperatures should trend closer to 
seasonal normals for next Saturday as the air mass starts to 
moderate.

&&

.AVIATION /22Z SATURDAY THROUGH THURSDAY/...
A warm front moves through tonight. A cold front approaches 
from the west late Sunday.

IFR/LIFR through the TAF period. ANy MVFR early this evening will 
become IFR shortly. 

Fog is likely and drizzle is possible tonight. A break in precip 
tomorrow morning. Showers are expected to start at around 20-23Z 
Sunday.

Winds become primarily S closer to 5 kts tonight with a warm frontal 
passage and speed steadily increasing to 10kt late tonight, very 
early tomorrow morning. By 12Z Sunday, S wind at 10-20kt with gusts 
upwards of 25-30kt will be possible, especially along the coast. 
LLWS is expected by 6Z at 2kft from the S at 40kt. This will 
continue to increase into Sunday morning and afternoon to 50kt but 
become more confined to the immediate NYC and eastern coastal 
terminals. Up to 60kt LLWS possible at KJFK.

 ...NY Metro (KEWR/KLGA/KJFK/KTEB) TAF Uncertainty...

Confidence is low in occurrence of MVFR this afternoon. Currently 
MVFR is in TAFs 18Z-00Z, but should trends not agree by 18Z routine 
TAFs, may opt to keep cigs/vsbys at IFR levels for the remainder of 
the afternoon and into the evening. Confidence is higher in IFR/LIFR 
tonight. 

.OUTLOOK FOR 21Z SUNDAY THROUGH THURSDAY...

Sunday Night: IFR with showers. LLWS ramps down Sunday night.

Monday: Rain showers early, mainly east of NYC terminals with MVFR 
to IFR possible. Rain showers taper off afternoon into night from 
west to east. Conditions eventually return to VFR. Possible NW wind 
gusts afternoon into early evening to 20 kt.

Tuesday: VFR.

Wednesday: VFR.

Thursday: MVFR/IFR in showers. W 10-15 kts, G 20-25 kts.

Detailed information, including hourly TAF wind component forecasts, 
can be found at: https:/www.weather.gov/zny/n90

&&

.MARINE...
Main concern for tonight is potential of dense fog. Visibilities
should lower this evening and could near 1 nm and potentially
lower late tonight as a warm front approaches. A dense fog
advisory may be needed late tonight. 

Otherwise, conditions should remain below SCA levels across the
waters tonight into early Sunday morning. An increasing 
southerly slow during Sunday and into Sunday night, ahead of an 
approaching frontal system will approach gale force gusts, 
especially over the outer ocean waters. Confidence in gale gusts
across the remainder of the waters has lowered as a strong low 
level inversion will prevent the higher winds aloft from mixing 
to the water surface. However, with uncertainty will leave up 
the Gale Watch for all the waters at this time. A the cold front
moves into the waters and waves of low pressure develop along 
the front late Sunday night toward Monday morning, winds and 
gusts will diminish and drop to less than SCA levels, with ocean
seas remaining at SCA levels.

Ocean seas will remain elevated at or above 5 ft Monday night 
through Thursday mainly due to lingering SE swells. Winds on all
waters should be below SCA levels Monday night through 
Wednesday. The next chance for SCA winds will be Thursday into 
Thursday night as a cold front moves across the waters.

&&

.HYDROLOGY...
A frontal system is expected to produce a widespread 1 to 2 
inches of rain Sunday evening through Monday evening, with up to
2.25 inches across southeastern Connecticut and the twin forks 
of Long Island. Localized higher amounts are possible,
especially across the eastern areas. Heavy downpours could lead
to nuisance flooding in urban and poor drainage areas, 
especially Sunday night and Monday morning. While localized 
flash flooding cannot be ruled out, the overall risk is low.

No hydrologic impacts are expected Monday night through the end of 
next week.

&&

.OKX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CT...None.
NY...None.
NJ...None.
MARINE...Gale Watch from Sunday morning through late Sunday night for 
     ANZ331-332-335-338-340-345-350-353-355.

&&

$$

SYNOPSIS...DS/MET
NEAR TERM...DS/MET
SHORT TERM...MET
LONG TERM...DS
AVIATION...BR
MARINE...DS/MET
HYDROLOGY...DS/MET
