034 
FXUS61 KOKX 121132
AFDOKX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service New York NY
732 AM EDT Wed Mar 12 2025

.SYNOPSIS...
High pressure will be main feature through Friday with a weak wave 
of low pressure slowly passing nearby to our south tonight into 
Thursday night. A warm front lifts through Saturday, before a strong
cold front moves through the region into Sunday night. Behind 
it, high pressure returns early next week.

&&

.NEAR TERM /THROUGH TONIGHT/...
High pressure briefly builds in from the north today. It will be 
cooler than it has been for the past couple of days with a northerly 
flow turning east by late in the day. This along with subsidence 
will limit the mixing depth. High temperatures for the day might 
have already occurred in the city and adjacent areas shortly after 
midnight. Temperatures otherwise eventually rebound to 50-55 across 
the region. 

Shortwave with some moisture may combine for some light showers for 
the southern half of the area and mixed rain and snow showers for 
the northern half tonight. Precip chances are low however, capped at 
30 percent with the higher probabilities across the north where 
there will be a better combination of moisture and lift.

&&

.SHORT TERM /THURSDAY THROUGH FRIDAY NIGHT/...
The shortwave exits east early Thursday morning with another, but 
weaker, shortwave passing to our south off the Mid-Atlantic Coast. 
An associated weak wave of low pressure along a stationary front to 
our south slowly shifts eastward. Models have trended a little drier 
in the low levels along with isentropic lift trending farther east. 
Will therefore leave out the mention of drizzle for both Thursday 
and Thursday night. Models do however differ regarding the depth of 
moisture around 850mb down to the surface. Looks like it could be 
shallow enough for partial sunshine. High temperatures for Thursday 
in the upper 40s to low 50s.

Slight ridging at the surface and aloft for Friday. More in the way 
of sunshine after a mostly cloudy start. A little warmer too, with 
highs in the lower 50s for coastal areas and mid 50s inland.

&&

.LONG TERM /SATURDAY THROUGH TUESDAY/...
A more unsettled pattern sets up as deepening low pressure cuts 
through the central US and into the Upper Great Lakes this weekend 
with a mid level trough amplifying as it shifts east. This will send 
an associated warm front through the forecast area Saturday, and 
strengthening southerly flow helps stream in moisture from the Gulf 
into Sunday. Potential for a period of moderate to heavy rain ahead 
of the attendant cold frontal passage, though still differences in 
global guidance timing and placement that will need to be resolved 
before getting too specific. Lingering showers for Monday with the 
system exiting late Monday afternoon into Monday evening as high 
pressure builds in from the south Monday night into Tuesday.

Warm overnight lows for Saturday night into Sunday, especially away 
from the coast, as the area will be warm sectored. Low temperatures 
will only drop into the 50s for these locations, and upper 40s near 
the coast thanks to the relatively cooler waters. Temperatures 
remain above average for the rest of the long term with highs in the 
50s and 60s. Cooler conditions are expected along the coast once 
again.

&&

.AVIATION /12Z WEDNESDAY THROUGH SUNDAY/...
High pressure builds across New England today. A weak wave of low 
pressure approaches from the west this evening.

VFR through the period. 

N flow will shift to the NE later this morning, and then to the
E/SE this afternoon. Wind speeds will be at or just above 10 kt.
A few gusts to 20 kt possible through 15Z, but mainly at KTEB,
KHPN, and possibly KLGA.


 ...NY Metro (KEWR/KLGA/KJFK/KTEB) TAF Uncertainty...

No unscheduled amendments expected.

.OUTLOOK FOR 12Z THURSDAY THROUGH SUNDAY...

Thursday: Mainly VFR. Low chance or brief MVFR possible late
in the morning into the afternoon.

Friday: VFR.

Saturday: MVFR possible. Slight chance of rain showers. S gusts 20-
30 kt Saturday night. 

Sunday: IFR or lower possible with showers, especially in the 
afternoon and at night. S wind gusts 25-35 kt. 

Detailed information, including hourly TAF wind component forecasts, 
can be found at: https:/www.weather.gov/zny/n90

&&

.MARINE...
Swell on the ocean has increased noticeably over the past couple of 
hours, giving confidence to issue a small craft advisory. Guidance 
suggests that the swell doesn't increase too much over the next few 
hours, but seas should eventually average over 5 ft across each of 
the 3 ocean zones today. An onshore flow and swell is expected to 
keep ocean seas to advisory levels through at least Thursday night, 
so the SCA ends at this time for now. SCA could need to be stretched 
into Friday, but probably not through Friday night. Sub-advisory 
conditions on the non-ocean waters today through Friday night. 

Ocean seas build late Saturday with strengthening southerly flow. 5 
ft seas are possible late Saturday, but more so Saturday night, then 
continue to build and peak Sunday night to 6 to 13 ft. Seas start to 
diminish late Sunday night, but remain above SCA conditions through 
Monday. 

Winds across all waters expected to be above 25 kt by late Saturday 
night into Sunday. Gales are possible on the ocean waters on Sunday 
into Sunday night. Winds begin to diminish late Sunday night, 
falling below 25 kt for most areas by daybreak Monday.

&&

.HYDROLOGY...
No hydrologic impacts expected into the beginning of this weekend.
There is potential for heavy downpours ahead of a frontal passage 
Sunday and Sunday night. There remains uncertainty into the duration 
and placement, but the possibility of nuisance flooding cannot be 
ruled out.

&&

.OKX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CT...None.
NY...None.
NJ...None.
MARINE...Small Craft Advisory until 6 PM EDT Thursday for ANZ350-353-
     355.

&&

$$

SYNOPSIS...JC/JP
NEAR TERM...JC
SHORT TERM...JC
LONG TERM...JP
AVIATION...JP
MARINE...JC/JP
HYDROLOGY...JC/JP
