407 
FXUS61 KOKX 190255
AFDOKX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service New York NY
1055 PM EDT Tue Mar 18 2025

.SYNOPSIS...
High pressure will be in control through Wednesday. The high
shifts east Wednesday night ahead of the next approaching cold
front on Thursday. A coastal low develops along the cold front 
and will impact the area Thursday night through Friday. High 
pressure builds in very briefly Friday night before a weak area 
of low pressure moves through Saturday into Saturday night. High
pressure returns Sunday, with another frontal system expected 
to move through early next week.

&&

.NEAR TERM /THROUGH WEDNESDAY/...
The fcst is on track. An upper level ridge and associated 
surface high will continue to build over the region tonight. The
offshore low pressure will also continuing drifting further 
east. The building ridge aloft will gradually shift the axis of 
the aforementioned clouds offshore tonight leaving behind mainly
clear skies across the entire area. Weak winds, dry air, will 
combine with the clear skies for ideal radiational cooling 
conditions, especially outside of the NYC metro. Lows will range
from the upper 20s and low 30s inland and across LI Pine 
Barrens to the mid and upper 30s elsewhere. Lows in the NYC 
metro should only fall into the low 40s. 

Ridging will remain overhead for much of Wednesday. The surface
high begins to shift to the east and the low level flow is 
weak. A fairly quick warm up in the morning and early afternoon 
will lead to sea breeze development through the afternoon. The 
axis of the ridge also begins shifting to the east late in the 
day with SW flow starting to increase well ahead of the next 
amplifying trough over the Plains. This increase in SW flow will
bring in some high clouds late. Highs in the upper 50s to 
around 60 will be reached by early afternoon across much of Long
Island, coastal Connecticut, and southern portions of the NYC 
metro. Further inland highs in the lower to middle 60s are 
forecast with a later timing of the sea breeze.

&&

.SHORT TERM /WEDNESDAY NIGHT THROUGH THURSDAY/...
Ridging will exit offshore Wednesday night into Thursday as
the aforementioned shortwave trough quickly approaches. Low 
level warm advection will increase Wednesday night. Increasing 
dew points and warmer air above the surface should begin the 
development of low clouds over the colder ocean. These clouds 
will likely overspread the area Wednesday night. Areas of fog 
are also possible especially closer to the coast early Thursday 
morning. Low confidence at this time if any of the fog will 
become dense and whether or not there will be drizzle. Model 
precip fields indicate some trace amounts of QPF, but this could
just be a signal for the low clouds overspreading the area. 
Lows Wednesday night will be milder and generally in the lower 
to middle 40s with a few interior spots dropping into the 30s. 

Most of the daytime hours on Thursday will be dry. The upper trough 
rapidly approaches with its associated frontal system late in the 
day. Chances for showers begin to increase towards sunset from the 
NYC metro on west. Otherwise, low clouds may persist for a portion 
of the morning before diminishing. It is quite possible that 
portions of Long Island and southeast Connecticut remain under low 
clouds for a good portion of the day with the warmer air aloft 
continuing to move over the colder ocean. Temperatures will be 
cooler compared to Wednesday and only in the lower to middle 50s for 
most spots with potential of some upper 50s in the usual warmer 
spots. Temperatures may struggle to rise above 50 degrees near the 
coast and eastern Long Island/southeast CT if the low clouds hang on 
longer than currently forecast.

&&

.LONG TERM /THURSDAY NIGHT THROUGH TUESDAY/...
Key Points: 

* Moderate to locally heavy rain possible Thursday night into
  Friday morning along with the potential for some snow across 
  the interior
  
* Gusty NW flow behind the system could exceed 40 mph at times 
  Friday

* Next chance for widespread precipitation then looks to arrive 
  Monday into Tuesday of next week 

The long term period starts off with a deep trough just to our
west. Low pressure at the surface will be centered somewhere 
well to our north in eastern Canada while an associated cold 
front extends southward just to our west. As this boundary 
approaches, a coastal low looks to develop along it right over 
or just south of our area. The guidance is in good agreement up 
to this point. Model solutions start to diverge with how quickly
the low departs. The GFS continues to be the slowest, and has 
the low lingering nearby through Friday. The ECMWF remains very 
progressive and the Canadian is somewhere in between. Something 
to keep an eye on for the next few forecast cycles is the GEFS 
member low locations. A cluster of members have trended a bit 
slower and farther southwest with the coastal low in the latest 
12z run. The GFS deterministic solution would allow for precip 
to be lingering while colder air moves in behind the system. 
This would be the snowiest solution. A faster system will likely
lead to all plain rain. Given the spread, for now stuck with a 
few tenths of accumulation across the interior, with total QPF 
everywhere ranging from 0.50 to 0.75 inches. It is also worth 
noting that a slower system would lead to an increase in QPF. At
this time there are no hydrologic concerns.

Regardless of speed of departure, there is pretty high confidence
in gusty northwest winds behind this system. As the low deepens
it is reasonable at this time to say we can see gusts exceed 40
mph. Model soundings agree with periods of mixing up to 900mb 
on Friday. This could even allow for a brief window of Advisory 
level gusts. Have trended the forecast up slightly for now, but 
this trend may continue.

Brief surface ridging builds in Friday night and will allow
for winds to lower a bit. A weak area of low pressure passes to
the north on Saturday but will likely not bring any precip to 
our area. The next chance for widespread precip looks to be with
another frontal system early next week. There may be enough 
cold air around for some snow to mix in at the onset across the 
interior, but this will likely be a mostly plain rain event.

&&

.AVIATION /03Z WEDNESDAY THROUGH SUNDAY/...
VFR thru Wed as high pressure to the west builds in. IFR
possible Wed ngt as fog and low clouds develop.

A light NE/VRB flow into Wed mrng, becoming SE 5-10 kt in the 
afternoon and continuing Wed ngt. 

 ...NY Metro (KEWR/KLGA/KJFK/KTEB) TAF Uncertainty...

No unscheduled amendments expected thru 12Z.

.OUTLOOK FOR 00Z THURSDAY THROUGH SUNDAY...

Wednesday night: IFR/LIFR cigs possible.

Thursday: IFR/LIFR cigs possible late at KISP/KGON, and 
MVFR elsewhere, gradually improve to VFR by late morning or
midday. SE winds G20kt in the afternoon. 

Thursday night: IFR cond likely in rain. Precip could mix with 
snow late at KSWF. NW winds G20-25kt late from the NYC metros
north/west.

Friday: MVFR cond possible in the morning at the CT/Long Island
terminals. NW winds G30-40kt. 

Friday night: VFR. NW winds G20-25 kt in the evening. 

Saturday: VFR. SW winds G20kt in the afternoon at the NYC
metros. 

Sunday: VFR. NW winds G20kt.

Detailed information, including hourly TAF wind component
forecasts, can be found at: https:/www.weather.gov/zny/n90

&&

.MARINE...
Winds have continued subsiding on the waters this afternoon
with lingering potential of gusts up to 20 kt on the ocean east
of Moriches Inlet and eastern LI Bays and Sound. These winds 
will continue to diminish through this evening. Seas have also 
subsided below 5 ft on the ocean west of Fire Island Inlet. Have
therefore cancelled the Advisory for these waters. Seas east of
Fire Island Inlet will remain 5-6 ft through tonight and may 
linger near 5 ft east of Moriches Inlet through Wednesday 
morning. Otherwise, conditions will remain below SCA levels 
through much of Wednesday night. Seas may begin building back 
towards 5 ft on the ocean late Wednesday night, but more likely 
on Thursday ahead of an approaching frontal system. Winds will 
also increase on Thursday and could approach 20-25 kt late in 
the day on the ocean west of Fire Island Inlet. 

As a coastal low deepens near the area, winds will strengthen 
Thursday night into Friday morning. Gale force gusts are possible
by Friday morning on all waters and have continued a mention of
this in the HWO. During this time, seas on the ocean waters may
reach 8-10 feet. Sub-SCA conditions are expected to return on 
Saturday and could last through early next week. There is some 
potential for brief SCA conditions on Monday with another 
frontal system moving through.

&&

.HYDROLOGY...
No hydrologic impacts are expected through early next week.

&&

.OKX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CT...None.
NY...None.
NJ...None.
MARINE...Small Craft Advisory until 11 AM EDT Wednesday for ANZ350.
     Small Craft Advisory until 6 AM EDT Wednesday for ANZ353.

&&

$$

SYNOPSIS...DS/JT
NEAR TERM...JMC/DS/JT
SHORT TERM...DS
LONG TERM...JT
AVIATION...JMC/BG
MARINE...DS/JT
HYDROLOGY...DS/JT
