593 
FXUS61 KOKX 280241
AFDOKX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service New York NY
1041 PM EDT Thu Mar 27 2025

.SYNOPSIS...
A trough of low pressure passes through tonight, followed by a 
cold front that stalls nearby during Friday before moving back 
north as a warm front Friday night into Saturday. The frontal 
boundary drifts back south of the region Saturday night, before 
lifting north once again Sunday night as low pressure tracks 
through the Great Lakes. The associated cold front approaches 
Monday, moving through Monday night into Tuesday. High pressure 
then builds in from the northwest Tuesday, before another 
frontal system potentially impacts the region mid next week.

&&

.NEAR TERM /UNTIL 6 AM FRIDAY MORNING/...
Scattered to mostly cloudy conditions were approaching the 
region from the northwest in advance of a trough, and clouds
will be increasing across the region after midnight. With winds
generally light, less than 5 kt, and the clear skies,
temperatures continue to drop off lower than forecast trends.
And dew points were also lower than forecast as dry air remains
at the lower levels.

A weak surface trough passes through the area overnight. Not 
much moisture with it, and with dry low levels, anything that 
falls might be just a sprinkle. Thermal profiles look too warm 
with freezing level heights too high to support flurries.

&&

.SHORT TERM /6 AM FRIDAY MORNING THROUGH FRIDAY NIGHT/...
For Friday, a cold front dropping down from the north stalls 
somewhere across the forecast area, but possibly just north of 
us. The front then nudges northward starting late in the day or 
during Friday night as a warm front. Meanwhile, moisture streams
eastward in the vicinity and north of this boundary. Some of 
this may result in some showers late in the day for parts of the
forecast area, but a better overall chance happens during 
Friday night for the entire area. Temperatures will run above 
normal with highs in the mid 50s to low 60s and lows around 50 
in the city with 40s elsewhere.

&&

.LONG TERM /SATURDAY THROUGH THURSDAY/...
Unsettled to start the period as a complex frontal system 
lingers nearby through early next week.

Warm front remains north of the region on Saturday, with 
increasing SW flow quickly advecting in an anomalously mild air 
mass and setting up the warmest day of the year so far. 
Temperatures rise well into the 70s generally from NYC north and
west, with perhaps even a few lower 80s in urban NE NJ. Marine 
influence should limit max temps to the lower 70s moving east 
into Long Island and much of southern CT, and the 60s along 
south facing shorelines out east. The warmth is short-lived as 
NW flow aloft and mid level confluence over eastern Canada bring
high pressure SE into northern New England and helps force the 
front back south Saturday night.

As that high passes well east, the front drifts back north as 
low pressure cuts tracks thru the Lower Great Lakes, and lifts 
north by Monday AM. Attendant cold front then approaches Monday,
moving across the area Monday night. A mostly cloudy day should
limit highs to the upper 50s and lower 60s to the east and mid 
60s to lower 70s to the west. Expect numerous showers along and 
ahead of the fropa, and at least the chance for some embedded 
thunderstorms, especially west of the Hudson. Thereafter, 
cooling back down into the 40s and 50s for daytime highs Tue and
Wed with cold NW flow. Another frontal system could bring 
another round of rain mid next week.

&&

.AVIATION /03Z FRIDAY THROUGH TUESDAY/...
High pressure off the mid Atlantic and southeast coast remains 
overnight as a weak cold front moves through the area. The 
front then stalls in the vicinity during Friday and moves back 
north as a warm front Friday night into Saturday.

VFR. Winds have become light southwest, to light and variable,
and will shift back to W toward morning, and increase as a 
trough moves through. The W flow continues into Friday morning 
before winds shift back to SW around midday, and then S late in 
the day.

Isolated light rain showers are possible overnight, and with low
confidence in coverage and occurrence have left out of the TAFs.
Conditions are expected to remain VFR regardless.

 ...NY Metro (KEWR/KLGA/KJFK/KTEB) TAF Uncertainty... 

No unscheduled amendments through Friday afternoon.


.OUTLOOK FOR 00Z SATURDAY THROUGH TUESDAY...

Friday night: MVFR with a chance of rain showers.

Saturday: VFR through the morning, MVFR possible starting in the 
evening with rain showers. SW winds G25-30kt.

Sunday: VFR, with a slight chance of rain showers during the day. 
MVFR with a chance of rain showers at night. E-SE wind G15-20kt.

Monday: MVFR or lower with showers, slight chance of thunder in the 
afternoon. S-SW winds G25-30kt, becoming NW at night. 

Tuesday: VFR. N/NW wind G25kt during the day.

Detailed information, including hourly TAF wind component forecasts, 
can be found at: https:/www.weather.gov/zny/n90

&&

.MARINE...
Winds diminish this evening before increasing overnight as the 
pressure gradient tightens in response to a trough shifting 
through the region. Not enough confidence to drop the SCA for 
the non-ocean waters for the overnight/Friday morning period, 
but there may be only low coverage where criteria is met. On the
ocean, 5ft seas would appear to be limited east of Fire Island 
Inlet, but marginal SCA gusts anticipated west of here overnight
into Friday morning, so no changes to the advisories on the 
ocean. Sub-advisory conditions then follow for Friday afternoon 
and night. 

Strengthening SW flow may bring Small Craft Advisory (SCA) 
conditions to at least the ocean waters, if not all waters, Saturday 
with winds gusting toward 25 kt. Ocean seas build above 5 ft 
Saturday and Saturday night as well, and could linger thru 
Sunday AM, especially east of Moriches Inlet. Winds lower 
Saturday night, and after a lull daytime Sunday, SCA conditions 
return Sunday night or Monday as a frontal boundary lifts north,
with gusts 25 to 30 kt possible on all waters. Gales possible 
Monday on the ocean. Winds and seas should then begin to lower 
below SCA criteria Tuesday.

&&

.FIRE WEATHER...
Minimum RH values on Friday are expected to be lowest across 
the CT zones at 30-35%. Winds will however be on the lighter 
side by the time the RH drops this low in the afternoon, with 
maybe a gust or two up to 20 mph. Minimum RH values for the rest
of the forecast area will range mostly 35-45% with gusts below 
20 mph. No statements anticipated across the entire forecast 
area at this time.

&&

.HYDROLOGY...
No hydrologic impacts expected through the middle of next week.

&&

.OKX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CT...None.
NY...None.
NJ...None.
MARINE...Small Craft Advisory from 3 AM to 10 AM EDT Friday for ANZ331-
     332-340-345.
     Small Craft Advisory until noon EDT Friday for ANZ350-353.
     Small Craft Advisory until 10 AM EDT Friday for ANZ355.

&&

$$

SYNOPSIS...JC/DR
NEAR TERM...JC/DR/MET
SHORT TERM...JC
LONG TERM...DR
AVIATION...MET
MARINE...JC/DR
FIRE WEATHER...
HYDROLOGY...JC/DR
