663 
FXUS61 KOKX 151841
AFDOKX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service New York NY
241 PM EDT Sun Jun 15 2025

.SYNOPSIS...
High pressure builds in from the northeast today and will 
influence the area into the early week. A warm front may move 
through Tuesday night, with a wave of low pressure impacting the
area Wednesday morning.

&&

.NEAR TERM /THROUGH TONIGHT/...
Introduced chance PoPs (25 to 30 percent) generally from the City on 
south and west. Pockets of light rain are possible at times thru the 
remainder of the day, though the bulk of this period remains dry at 
any one spot with overcast skies. Elsewhere, can't rule out a spotty 
sprinkle, but coverage looks much more sparse closer to the high to 
the north. Previous discussion follows.

A wave of low pressure pulls a frontal boundary farther offshore 
today while high pressure noses in from the northeast. Aloft, a 
mainly zonal flow is expected.

With high pressure nosing in from the northeast, some drier air 
filters in, but eastern CT and eastern LI are the main locations 
that will see the advantage of this as far as breaks of sun if they 
are to occur. Plenty of moisture will still be around in the low 
levels to keep mostly cloudy skies around for northeast NJ, NYC and 
western LI. Given this moisture and the potential for very weak lift 
(likely from surface to 900mb speed convergence), have reintroduced 
PoPs for these areas. Still thinking the CAMs are overdone, but 
thinking at least slight chance/chance of light rain. This is not a 
washout by any means and much of the day should remain dry. Other 
areas likely stay dry with the influence of high pressure.

Stuck with NBM for highs today as it seems to reflect effects from 
differences in cloud cover well. The warm spots will likely be in 
eastern CT with some low 70s. Elsewhere expect 60s.

&&

.SHORT TERM /MONDAY THROUGH TUESDAY NIGHT/...
Some very slight height rises are expected on Monday with shortwave 
ridging aloft. A similar surface pattern to Sunday is expected with 
high pressure remaining in place, weakening slightly. Dry conditions 
are expected. Went a bit cooler than the NBM as an easterly flow and 
some cloud cover will likely keep us from getting out of the upper 
60s/lower 70s.

High pressure weakens more on Tuesday and the frontal boundary to 
our south starts returning north as a warm front. The front could 
move through as Tuesday night. This, and another wave of low 
pressure along the front will bring more rain to the area. The 
latest NAM and GFS are both hinting at the possibility of a long
and skinny MUCAPE profile with pwat values around 2.25 inches 
early Wednesday morning. It is too early for specifics but there
is potential for efficient rainfall with heavy downpours. At 
this time the storm motion appears to be around 30 kts. This 
trend will need to be monitored.

&&

.LONG TERM /WEDNESDAY THROUGH SATURDAY/...
A low pressure system tracking through southern Canada Wednesday 
will bring a warm front through the region by late Wednesday.
A warm and humid airmass will then be in place for Wednesday night 
into Thursday. The forecast remains on track with the timing of a 
cold front passing through the region Thursday night. Increasing 
surface based CAPE, up to 1500 J/kg Thursday, along with increasing 
shear, and surface instability will result in thunderstorms, a few 
of which could contain briefly heavy rainfall. Precipitable water 
values have decreased a little from Saturday's forecasts, and storms 
will be moving rather quickly, which will lessen the impacts for 
excessive rainfall and potential hydrologic impacts. After the 
passage of the cold front an extended period of dry weather is 
expected as ridging increases to the west and moves into the region 
Friday night into next weekend. There is only a slight chance of 
afternoon/evening thunderstorms across the interior Friday as a weak 
surface trough sets up, however, with increasing heights and 
subsidence, capping may prevent any development.

&&

.AVIATION /18Z SUNDAY THROUGH FRIDAY/...
A weak ridge of high pressure will remain across the area into
Monday, while a stationary front and waves of low pressure along
it remain to the south.

For the time, expect a mainly MVFR forecast for the NYC, KHPN 
and KISP terminals. To the north and west, KSWF and the CT 
terminals are forecast to see gradual improvement to VFR into
this evening. MVFR likely returns to these locations late 
tonight into Monday morning. Occasional VFR is possible 
elsewhere the first half of tonight. There is a low confidence 
for a period of IFR overnight. 

In addition, patches of light rain and/or sprinkles will be in
close proximity to the NYC terminals. Little to no impact
expected. 

NE to E winds generally less than 10 kt through the TAF period.
Winds may back more to the E/SE for a time this afternoon into 
early this evening.

    NY Metro (KEWR/KLGA/KJFK/KTEB) TAF Uncertainty...

Chance of IFR late tonight into Monday morning. Low confidence
at this time.

.OUTLOOK FOR 18Z MONDAY THROUGH FRIDAY... 

Monday: Mainly MVFR.

Tuesday: MVFR, IFR possible. A chance of showers, mainly at 
night.

Wednesday: Chance of IFR in the morning, otherwise MVFR with a 
chance of showers and thunderstorms. 

Thursday: Mainly VFR. Chance of afternoon/evening showers and
thunderstorms. SW G15-20kt. 

Friday: VFR. W G15-20kt. 

Detailed information, including hourly TAF wind component forecasts, 
can be found at: https:/www.weather.gov/zny/n90

&&

.MARINE...
Still some occasional 5 ft seas across coastal ocean waters 
from Sandy Hook to Moriches Inlet. These should largely subside 
into the afternoon and a weak pressure gradient results in sub- 
SCA conditions through Tuesday night.

Wednesday through Friday winds and seas continue to remain 
below SCA levels on the forecast waters. However, with an 
increasing southwest flow, ahead of a cold front Thursday, ocean
seas and gusts may briefly approach SCA levels late day into 
the early evening.

&&

.HYDROLOGY...
There are no hydrologic concerns through next weekend at this
time.

&&

.TIDES/COASTAL FLOODING...
Based on latest surf observations, rips may be more pronounced
today. Thus, will upgrade to a moderate rip current risk. 
Easterly swells will subside a bit heading into this evening so
the risk could subside some. The main wave component is an 
easterly wind wave 3-4 ft at 6-8s. A 1-2ft southeast swell at 
7-9s also exists.

&&

.OKX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CT...None.
NY...None.
NJ...None.
MARINE...None.

&&

$$

SYNOPSIS...MET/JT
NEAR TERM...DR/JT
SHORT TERM...JT
LONG TERM...MET
AVIATION...DW
MARINE...MET/JT
HYDROLOGY...MET/JT
TIDES/COASTAL FLOODING...
