025 
FXUS61 KOKX 281051 CCA
AFDOKX

Area Forecast Discussion...CORRECTED
National Weather Service New York NY
651 AM EDT Fri Mar 28 2025

.SYNOPSIS...
High pressure will be moving farther off the Carolina coast
today. A cold front moves southward into the area this morning.
The front weakens with high pressure briefly building in this 
afternoon before this front moves back north as a warm front for
tonight. The warm front is expected to be north of the region 
Saturday and then shift back south for Saturday night into 
Sunday. The front will lift back north on Monday, followed by a
cold frontal passage Monday night. High pressure will then 
build in its wake on Tuesday and pass east on Wednesday. A 
frontal system will approach Wednesday night into Thursday.

&&

.NEAR TERM /UNTIL 6 PM THIS EVENING/...
Made some adjustments to hourly temperatures and dewpoints to
better match observed trends.

Cold front approaching will make for some gusty winds with more
mixing in boundary layer as it moves in this morning. Dry
conditions are expected today.

The front will weaken with weak high pressure returning going into 
this afternoon. The front is not expected to move totally through 
the region. Some more breaks of sun are expected. Winds will 
diminish, with the more westerly flow and slight ridging aloft 
leading to a relatively warmer day. 

However, by the latter half of this afternoon, clouds begin to move 
in from the west ahead of an approaching warm front. Winds will be 
light and gradually gain a more southerly component.

Max temperatures forecast used the NBM 50th percentile. Warmer
than the previous day, getting into the lower 50s to mid 60s 
for the region.

&&

.SHORT TERM /6 PM THIS EVENING THROUGH SUNDAY NIGHT/...
Main feature tonight will be the northward movement of the front 
that was in the area earlier. The front will be making its way 
southwest to northeast across the local region as a warm front.

The warm air advection aloft is forecast to lead to a few rain 
showers across the region tonight. Some patchy fog will be 
possible as well.

Non-diurnal trend to temperatures tonight. Lows likely set 
early with slowly rising temperatures overnight. Used a 
combination of NBM/NBM 50th percentile for lows forecast for 
late tonight into early Saturday morning. 

The region gets in the warm sector Saturday with warm front
north of the region. SE Connecticut will not be too far away
from the front. Mainly dry conditions are expected since the 
front will not be within the region. Increased low level SW flow
and ridging aloft will allow for a much warmer airmass. This 
will result in temperature rising well above seasonal normals. 
Models show 850mb temperatures Saturday afternoon to be about 10
degrees C warmer than 24 hours prior. These higher 850 mb 
temperatures stay through the weekend, helping establish a low 
level inversion.

MAV guidance has trended warmer for temperatures Saturday
compared to its previous run for western locations away from
maritime influence. Expect to see a large temperature gradient
in temperatures Saturday due to maritime influence, lowest for 
Eastern Long Island and SE Connecticut, closer to 55 to 60, to 
highest for Northeast NJ, lower 80s. Lower 70s to lower 80s 
covers the range of high temperature for much of the region 
Saturday.

The warm front does not move too much over the course of the 
weekend. The warm front is forecast to work its way farther 
south Saturday night into Sunday, allowing for more easterly 
flow to the north of the boundary. This will lead to much cooler
temperatures for Sunday especially for the more northeastern 
locations of the forecast area. The area high temperatures
Sunday fit mostly in the 50 to 60 degree range. The chances for
rain showers increase for the latter half of this weekend, 
especially Sunday night. Boundary layer moisture increases over 
the course of the weekend with patchy fog also expected Saturday
night into early Sunday morning as well as Sunday night into 
early Monday morning.

Locations farthest north within the region will have relatively 
higher chances of rain showers compared to locations farther south. 
This will mean a difference in temperatures as well for this 
weekend, comparing SE Connecticut and Eastern Long Island to the 
Lower Hudson Valley and NE New Jersey.

&&

.LONG TERM /MONDAY THROUGH THURSDAY/...
The period starts with upper ridging to the east and an approaching 
upper trough to the west. At the sfc, a warm front will lift to the 
north early Mon, followed by a cold front Mon night. Mon should be 
another mild day though not quite as warm as Sunday as flow will be 
southerly off the ocean, with high temps in the lower 70s west of 
the Hudson and in the 60s from NYC east. Showers will be likely 
mainly Mon afternoon/evening via combo of the approaching cold front 
and Atlantic moisture streaming northward in its advance via a low 
level subtropical connection. 

The front should pass east late Mon night, with precip coming to an 
end, then skies becoming mostly sunny on Tue as the upper trough 
axis passes east. Temps return closer to normal on Tue with highs in 
the 50s, then cool off for Wed with highs only 45-50. 

The next approaching frontal system arrives Wed night into Thu. 
Precip type at the onset inland Wed night is a little uncertain, as 
temps inland fall to the mid 30s and GFS hangs onto some colder air 
aloft that might lead to a rain/snow mix, while ECMWF is warmer and 
points more toward all rain. Rain expected for daytime Thu with 
temps warming to the upper 50s inland and lower 60s from NYC 
north/west as the area gets warm sectored.

&&

.AVIATION /12Z FRIDAY THROUGH TUESDAY/...
High pressure off the Mid Atlantic and Southeast coasts will
remain overnight as a weak cold front moves through. The front
will then stall nearby today and move back north as a warm front
tonight into Saturday.

VFR. SW winds should shift back W after daybreak and increase to 
around 10 kt as as a trough moves through. W flow should back to
SW this afternoon, and more S late today. 

Sprinkles falling out of a BKN-OVC mid level cloud deck are
possible overnight. There is a chance of rain showers/MVFR with
the approaching warm front tonight. 

 ...NY Metro (KEWR/KLGA/KJFK/KTEB) TAF Uncertainty... 

No unscheduled AMD expected. 

.OUTLOOK FOR 06Z SATURDAY THROUGH TUESDAY...

Late tonight: Mainly VFR. 

Saturday: VFR through the morning, MVFR possible starting in the
evening with rain showers. SW winds G25-30kt. 

Sunday: VFR, with a slight chance of rain showers during the day. 
MVFR with a chance of rain showers at night. E-SE wind G15-20kt.

Monday: MVFR or lower with showers and slight chance of thunder.
S-SW winds G25-30kt, becoming NW at night. 

Tuesday: VFR. N-NW wind G25kt daytime. 

Detailed information, including hourly TAF wind component
forecasts, can be found at: https:/www.weather.gov/zny/n90

&&

.MARINE...
SCA ongoing across the ocean waters and most non-ocean waters 
this morning. This will be associated with a cold front moving 
in and will be based on wind gusts primarily. There are some
near shore wind gusts near SCA range this morning so far across
eastern parts of the region. The front weakens going into this 
afternoon. SCA conditions expected to lower late this morning. 
SCAs end at 10AM for most waters with ocean east of Fire Island 
Inlet going until 12PM.

Expect sub-SCA conditions this afternoon through tonight on all
waters.

Looking at this weekend, Saturday could present some SCA 
potential, mainly due to ocean seas though. Wind gusts appear to
be limited with the developing low level inversion but they will
be close. Non-ocean zones likely below SCA thresholds. The 
elevated ocean seas with SCA levels will probably continue 
through the rest of the weekend, especially for eastern ocean 
zones.

An extended period of SCA cond likely on the ocean into Tue night
as seas remain elevated, first via long fetch S flow up to 20 kt 
on Mon, then in NW flow gusting to 25 kt Mon night into Tue AM 
after a cold frontal passage followed by lingering swell. The non 
ocean waters may also see minimal SCA cond late Mon night in post-
frontal NW flow but this is less certain.

&&

.HYDROLOGY...
Around a tenth of an inch of rain or less with rain showers
tonight into early Saturday. 

Less than a quarter of an inch of rain expected for showers for
the weekend through Sunday, mainly extreme northern areas.

Rain with the frontal system from late Sunday night into Mon night 
should average around or just over 1/2 inch. There is potential for 
QPF of 3/4 to 1 inch with locally higher amts Wed night into Thu but 
this appears less certain.

No hydrologic impacts expected through the middle of next week.

&&

.OKX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CT...None.
NY...None.
NJ...None.
MARINE...Small Craft Advisory until 10 AM EDT this morning for ANZ331-
     332-340-345-355.
     Small Craft Advisory until noon EDT today for ANZ350-353.

&&

$$

SYNOPSIS...BG/JM
NEAR TERM...JM
SHORT TERM...JM
LONG TERM...BG
AVIATION...BG
MARINE...BG/JM
HYDROLOGY...BG/JM
