411 
FXUS61 KOKX 242359
AFDOKX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service New York NY
759 PM EDT Sun Aug 24 2025

.SYNOPSIS...
A cold front slowly approaches from the west into tonight, before 
passing through on Monday. High pressure then gradually builds in 
for the middle of the week. A frontal system may approach the 
region Friday into Saturday.

&&

.NEAR TERM /UNTIL 6 AM MONDAY MORNING/...
Closed upper trough axis remains centered over the Great Lakes 
as a surface cold front ahead of it slowly approaches tonight.

Winds ahead of the boundary are largely onshore from the south.
The front is well back across western PA as of 18Z, and forcing
remains weak locally, as is instability. A mid level cloud deck
ahead of the front has worked into the Hudson Valley and 
northeast NJ, but only a few widely scattered light rain showers
have made it this far east, and CAMs aren't indicating much in 
the way of additional activity through tonight with the boundary
hanging back to the west. More likely, low stratus and areas of
fog may develop late with saturating low levels.

Meanwhile, a non tropical coastal area of low pressure skirts 
the Carolina coast and passes just to the east of the area 
tonight. Most guidance keeps the region dry from this system, 
but a couple solutions do graze the LI Forks and SE CT with a 
few showers overnight or early Monday morning as it passes 
east, so will maintain at least slight chance PoPs here, with 
overcast skies otherwise.

&&

.SHORT TERM /6 AM MONDAY MORNING THROUGH MONDAY NIGHT/...
Trough slowly begins to shift into the Northeast on Monday, 
with a leading cold front moving through locally during the 
morning hours, and an offshore coastal low passing 150 mi 
southeast of Montauk.

Not anticipating widespread rainfall with the actual frontal 
passage, and CAMs advertise only isolated showers in the early 
morning as it moves through. Absent this, many, if not most, 
remain dry. Any lingering fog or low stratus erodes through mid 
morning, and remaining cloud cover attempts to break up as the 
day progresses and the front works further offshore.

Soundings show a well-mixed BL developing, up to 750 mb, as 
flow turns westerly behind the fropa. This should lead to gusts
20 to 25 mph much of the day. 925 mb are progged into the low 
20s(C), which yields a rather warm and humid day prior to the 
arrival of cooler air behind the front. Afternoon highs top the 
low to mid 80s, or even a couple of degrees above normal for 
late August. The drier, cooler air mass begins to advect in by 
late day, and dew pts fall from the mid to upper 60s in the 
afternoon, down into the 50s by the evening. Dry conditions 
prevail Monday night with clearing skies.

&&

.LONG TERM /TUESDAY THROUGH SUNDAY/...
Key Points:

* Dry conditions expected through Thursday, with slight shower 
  chances Friday.

* Temperatures will be near or slightly below normal for the period. 

Decent model agreement through the week with a series of upper 
troughs advecting through the northeast with little fanfare. High 
pressure at the surface slowly makes its way east from the Central 
Plains heading south of the area by late week. Thus, with the high 
off to the west, northwest flow at the surface will dominate, and so 
expecting dry and cooler conditions Tuesday through Thursday. By 
Friday, an upper trough approaches from the west along with a weak 
cold front. Precipitation chances do increase through the day on 
Friday, but with better forcing to our north via the
aforementioned upper trough, not anticipating much in the way 
of shower activity associated with the system at this point. 

The NBM was followed for this update.

&&

.AVIATION /00Z MONDAY THROUGH FRIDAY/...
A cold front slowly approaches this evening and overnight and 
moves across the terminals on Monday.

Generally looking at VFR conditions this evening. The one 
exception will be north and west of NYC, where there is a better
chance of MVFR cigs, mainly KSWF and KHPN, however MVFR may not
prevail until after 03z. More widespread MVFR and IFR ceilings 
become likely tonight with showers possible late tonight into 
Monday AM for the more western terminals, especially KSWF. MVFR
or lower cigs also possible at KGON, as cloud cover from an
offshore low moves into the area. 

A general S flow through the TAF period. NYC terminals remain around 
8-12 kt for most terminals, with gusts up to 20 kt during the 
afternoon. The winds then decrease for the evening. The 
winds will become primarily SW and W Monday morning at 5 to 10 kt.

 ...NY Metro (KEWR/KLGA/KJFK/KTEB) TAF Uncertainty...

MVFR conditions could occur earlier than indicated in TAFs for 
tonight.

.OUTLOOK FOR 00Z TUESDAY THROUGH FRIDAY...

Monday afternoon: MVFR or lower possible, mainly east of 
NYC. Scattered showers also possible 

Tuesday - Friday: VFR.

Detailed information, including hourly TAF wind component forecasts, 
can be found at: https:/www.weather.gov/zny/n90

&&

.MARINE...
Extended Small Craft Advisory (SCA) on the coastal ocean waters
again until 2am as long period easterly swells continue, with 
seas hanging near 5 ft. per recent buoy observations. Seas 
gradually lower into tonight, before building back toward 5 ft 
on waters east of Fire Island inlet late Monday afternoon with 
increasing southerly swells. Additional SCA may be needed here 
Monday evening through Tuesday morning.

Other than noted above, winds and waves are expected to remain 
below advisory criteria through the week.

&&

.HYDROLOGY...
There are no hydrologic concerns through the upcoming week.

&&

.TIDES/COASTAL FLOODING...
The high risk for rip currents for the Atlantic Ocean beaches
has been extended through Monday. Ocean beach reports continue
to highlight dangerous surf zone conditions this evening. A
combination of southerly flow, long period 7-8 second swells and
4-5 ft swell looks to continue until later in the day.

For Tuesday, there is a moderate risk for rip currents at the 
as a 3 to 4 ft swell continues.

&&

.OKX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CT...None.
NY...High Risk for Rip Currents through Monday evening for NYZ075-080-
     081-178-179.
NJ...None.
MARINE...Small Craft Advisory until 2 AM EDT Monday for ANZ350-353-355.

&&

$$

SYNOPSIS...DBR/DR
NEAR TERM...DR
SHORT TERM...DR
LONG TERM...DBR
AVIATION...BC
MARINE...DBR/DR
HYDROLOGY...DBR/DR
TIDES/COASTAL FLOODING...
