665 
FXUS61 KOKX 261753
AFDOKX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service New York NY
153 PM EDT Sat Jul 26 2025

.SYNOPSIS...
High pressure builds down over the area today, and then 
southeast tonight. A weak frontal system then approaches late 
tonight, moving through on Sunday. High pressure returns to the 
area for Monday into Tuesday. A cold front approaches from the 
west on Tuesday afternoon and moves offshore Tuesday evening. A 
second cold front follows late Wednesday into early Thursday 
with high pressure returning to end the week.

&&

.NEAR TERM /UNTIL 6 PM THIS EVENING/...
Region remains on the NE periphery of strong southern ridging 
today, with high pressure building down from the north.

As a result, a drier airmass continues to work into the region
on occasionally gusty NE flow this morning bringing dewpoints 
some 10-15 degrees lower than this time 24 hours ago. 

This gusty ne flow has also allowed a pool of wildfire smoke,
likely trapped under a near boundary layer subsidence inversion
across the St Lawrence River Valley and central and eastern New
England to rotate and mix down into the area this morning. This
will continue into the afternoon while gradually diluting. 
Visibility will likely be reduced to 4 to 6 mile in haze 
through at least the early afternoon with a faint smell of 
smoke as a result. EPA monitored PM AQI levels of 100 to 150 
(unhealthy for sensitive groups to all groups) being observed 
across central and eastern New England this AM, which could 
potentially work down into portions of the area through the 
afternoon. NYS has issued an air quality alert for much of SE NY
as a result for today.

Otherwise, dry conditions are expected for the day with 
seasonable temps and much more comfortable humidity levels, with
highs in the mid 80s for most, and the upper 80s for the urban 
corridor. Given the lower dewpoints, heat indices today will be 
near the actual temperature. 

High clouds will be on the increase this afternoon into this 
evening in advance of the next frontal system to impact the area
Sunday.

&&

.SHORT TERM /6 PM THIS EVENING THROUGH MONDAY/...
Weak upper ridging becomes more of a zonal flow aloft as a shortwave 
approaches from the west. Aforementioned surface high pressure is 
slow to move east Sunday morning as a trough/warm front and 
associated low pressure system approach from the west. Precip 
chances thus increase on Sunday morning from west to east as the 
front slides near the area. Instability per BUFKIT soundings looks 
weak in the AM, so any thunder looks isolated initially. Mid and low 
level dry air also looks to remain entrenched for at least part of 
Sunday AM, so precip may have some difficulty initially. Model 
soundings do show an appreciable increase in PWAT, with over 2" by 
Sunday afternoon along with a modest increase in instability (MUCAPE 
500-1000J) and shear (0-6km shear values ~30kts) with the 
approaching shortwave. SPC maintains a marginal risk of severe 
thunderstorms for the area on Sunday. 

With cloud cover around, highs will be mainly in the low 80s, with a 
more humid feel as dewpoints rebound into the low 70s by Sunday 
evening under the southerly flow.

An increase in heat and humidity on Monday as weak ridging builds 
back in behind the departing shortwave. Dry weather is expected. 
However, h850 temperatures approach 20-21C Monday afternoon with 
dewpoint in the mid 70s (per NBM). Thus, heat indices of 100-105 for 
northeast NJ and 95-100 elsewhere look possible once again.

&&

.LONG TERM /MONDAY NIGHT THROUGH SATURDAY/...
The NBM was followed with no changes.

Key Points: 

* High heat and humidity will continue on Tuesday, potentially 
  lingering into Wednesday. The peak of the heat currently looks to 
  occur on Tuesday with max heat index values 100 to around 105F. 
  Wednesdays heat index values remain below 100.

* A few showers and thunderstorms are possible Tuesday afternoon and 
  evening with a weak cold front. The threat for showers and 
  thunderstorms continues Wednesday, potentially lingering into 
  Thursday as a stronger cold front moves into the area. 

* Temperatures trend down to end the week with potential of below 
  normal temperatures. Humidity levels also should be much lower 
  than the first half of the week.

&&

.AVIATION /18Z SATURDAY THROUGH THURSDAY/...
High pressure over the region moves offshore this evening and
into tonight. A warm front approaches the area from the west 
late tonight, moving into the region Sunday morning, and
possiblybecoming stationary.

Generally VFR, with areas MVFR with visibilities reduced in 
haze through this afternoon. MVFR possible late tonight into
Sunday morning with a chance of showers, generally 07Z to 14Z.

Winds E to SE around 10 kt become S late day and into this
evening. Tonight winds become light from the south, to light and
variable. Winds increase from the south 5 to 10 KT Sunday
morning.


   ...NY Metro (KEWR/KLGA/KJFK/KTEB) TAF Uncertainty...

Timing of showers late tonight with MVFR may be off a couple of
hours.


.OUTLOOK FOR 18Z SUNDAY THROUGH THURSDAY... 

Sunday afternoon: MVFR into Sunday evening then VFR. Showers 
and thunderstorms likely from the NYC terminals and north and 
west, and a chance to the east.

Monday - Tuesday: VFR.

Wednesday: VFR. A chance of showers and a slight chance of
thunderstorms with MVFR at night.

Thursday: VFR. A chance of showers with MVFR possible.

Detailed information, including hourly TAF wind component 
forecasts, can be found at: https:/www.weather.gov/zny/n90

&&

.MARINE...
A brief period of 20 kt gusts are possible in wake of a frontal
passage Saturday night into Sunday morning. Otherwise, sub SCA 
conditions are likely through Monday. A relatively weak pressure
gradient Tuesday through the end of the week will lead to 
conditions staying below SCA levels.

&&

.HYDROLOGY...
Showers and thunderstorms associated with a frontal system could 
produce locally heavy downpours on Sunday that result in nuisance 
flooding. WPC maintains a marginal risk of excessive rainfall, but 
the overall widespread flood threat appears low at this time.

There are currently no hydrologic concerns next week.

&&

.TIDES/COASTAL FLOODING...
A moderate rip current risk continues today with a mixture of 
lingering 1 to 2 ft S wind swell and a developing 3 ft wind 
wave. 

Based on RCMOS and NWPS guidance, the moderate rip risk
continues on Sunday, with lingering 1 to 2 ft S wind swell and 
a developing 3 ft wind wave.

&&

.OKX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CT...None.
NY...Air Quality Alert until midnight EDT tonight for NYZ067>075-
     078>081-176>179.
NJ...Air Quality Alert until midnight EDT tonight for NJZ002-004-
     006-103>108.
MARINE...None.

&&

$$

SYNOPSIS...BC/DBR
NEAR TERM...DBR/NV
SHORT TERM...DBR
LONG TERM...
AVIATION...MET
MARINE...BC/DBR
HYDROLOGY...BC/DBR
TIDES/COASTAL FLOODING...
