035 
FXUS61 KOKX 281805
AFDOKX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service New York NY
205 PM EDT Fri Mar 28 2025

.SYNOPSIS...
High pressure slides offshore today, with a warm front
approaching for tonight. The warm front is expected to be north
of the region Saturday and then shift back south for Saturday 
night into Sunday. The front will lift back north on Monday, 
followed by a cold frontal passage Monday night. High pressure 
will then build in its wake on Tuesday and pass east on 
Wednesday. A frontal system will approach Wednesday night into 
Thursday.

&&

.NEAR TERM /UNTIL 6 PM THIS EVENING/...
Weak high pressure quickly nosing in for this afternoon. 
Westerly flow gives way top waa return flow this afternoon.

Dry conditions expected, with an increasing mid deck this 
afternoon/evening with approaching vort energy ahead of shearing
southern shortwave.

Temps will run 5 to 10 degrees warmer than yesterday with max 
temps in the lower to mid 60s for much of the region, except for
upper 50s for south coastal areas with seabreeze development.

&&

.SHORT TERM /6 PM THIS EVENING THROUGH SUNDAY NIGHT/...
Main feature tonight will be the northward movement of the front 
that was in the area earlier. The front will be making its way 
southwest to northeast across the local region as a warm front.

The warm air advection aloft is forecast to lead to a few rain 
showers across the region tonight. Some patchy fog will be 
possible as well.

Non-diurnal trend to temperatures tonight. Lows likely set 
early with slowly rising temperatures overnight. Used a 
combination of NBM/NBM 50th percentile for lows forecast for 
late tonight into early Saturday morning. 

The region gets in the warm sector Saturday with warm front
north of the region. SE Connecticut will not be too far away
from the front. Mainly dry conditions are expected since the 
front will not be within the region. Increased low level SW flow
and ridging aloft will allow for a much warmer airmass. This 
will result in temperature rising well above seasonal normals. 
Models show 850mb temperatures Saturday afternoon to be about 10
degrees C warmer than 24 hours prior. These higher 850 mb 
temperatures stay through the weekend, helping establish a low 
level inversion.

MAV guidance has trended warmer for temperatures Saturday
compared to its previous run for western locations away from
maritime influence. Expect to see a large temperature gradient
in temperatures Saturday due to maritime influence, lowest for 
Eastern Long Island and SE Connecticut, closer to 55 to 60, to 
highest for Northeast NJ, lower 80s. Lower 70s to lower 80s 
covers the range of high temperature for much of the region 
Saturday.

The warm front does not move too much over the course of the 
weekend. The warm front is forecast to work its way farther 
south Saturday night into Sunday, allowing for more easterly 
flow to the north of the boundary. This will lead to much cooler
temperatures for Sunday especially for the more northeastern 
locations of the forecast area. The area high temperatures
Sunday fit mostly in the 50 to 60 degree range. The chances for
rain showers increase for the latter half of this weekend, 
especially Sunday night. Boundary layer moisture increases over 
the course of the weekend with patchy fog also expected Saturday
night into early Sunday morning as well as Sunday night into 
early Monday morning.

Locations farthest north within the region will have relatively 
higher chances of rain showers compared to locations farther south. 
This will mean a difference in temperatures as well for this 
weekend, comparing SE Connecticut and Eastern Long Island to the 
Lower Hudson Valley and NE New Jersey.

&&

.LONG TERM /MONDAY THROUGH THURSDAY/...
The period starts with upper ridging to the east and an approaching 
upper trough to the west. At the sfc, a warm front will lift to the 
north early Mon, followed by a cold front Mon night. Mon should be 
another mild day though not quite as warm as Sunday as flow will be 
southerly off the ocean, with high temps in the lower 70s west of 
the Hudson and in the 60s from NYC east. Showers will be likely 
mainly Mon afternoon/evening via combo of the approaching cold front 
and Atlantic moisture streaming northward in its advance via a low 
level subtropical connection. 

The front should pass east late Mon night, with precip coming to an 
end, then skies becoming mostly sunny on Tue as the upper trough 
axis passes east. Temps return closer to normal on Tue with highs in 
the 50s, then cool off for Wed with highs only 45-50. 

The next approaching frontal system arrives Wed night into Thu. 
Precip type at the onset inland Wed night is a little uncertain, as 
temps inland fall to the mid 30s and GFS hangs onto some colder air 
aloft that might lead to a rain/snow mix, while ECMWF is warmer and 
points more toward all rain. Rain expected for daytime Thu with 
temps warming to the upper 50s inland and lower 60s from NYC 
north/west as the area gets warm sectored.

&&

.AVIATION /18Z FRIDAY THROUGH WEDNESDAY/...
A weak front stalls nearby into this evening. The front then moves 
back north as a warm front late tonight into Saturday morning, 
before settling south towards the area once again late Saturday 
afternoon and evening.

VFR. W to SW winds mainly around 10 kt with a few occasional gusts 
for the next couple of hours. The winds then become S 5-10 kt for 
the NYC metro/coastal tonight and light/variable at some of the 
outlying terminals as the weak front draws near. 

Chance for MVFR cigs late this evening appear to be decreasing at 
the NYC metros with any showers associated with the warm front 
moving across. Mainly VFR as winds lighten tonight at mainly 5-10 kt 
with -SHRA mainly across northern and northeast terminals. TEMPO 
group for city terminals for showers this evening. VFR into Saturday 
morning with W to WSW wind with gusts by 13 to 15z.


 ...NY Metro (KEWR/KLGA/KJFK/KTEB) TAF Uncertainty... 

Low chance of brief MVFR ceilings this evening with -SHRA, 
otherwise no unscheduled AMD expected. 

.OUTLOOK FOR 18Z SATURDAY THROUGH WEDNESDAY...

Saturday afternoon: VFR to start, with showers with MVFR cond 
possible in the afternoon, especially at KBDR/KGON/KISP. W to SW 
winds G25-30kt / becoming ENE for eastern and northeastern 
terminals. 

Saturday night and Sunday: MVFR cigs east of the NYC metros, with 
localized IFR possible there late night into the early morning. E-SE 
winds G15-20kt daytime Sunday. 

Sunday night: Chance of showers with MVFR cond possible. 

Monday: MVFR or lower with showers and slight chance of thunder. S-
SW winds G20-25kt, becoming NW at night. 

Tuesday: VFR. N-NW wind G20-25kt daytime. 

Wednesday: Mainly VFR. E-SE winds. Sub VFR possible at night.

Detailed information, including hourly TAF wind component
forecasts, can be found at: https:/www.weather.gov/zny/n90

&&

.MARINE...
Sub-SCA conditions this afternoon through tonight on all waters
as high pressure moves through and then a warm front. 

SW SCA gusts likely for nearshore waters late Sat AM into
afternoon. Gusts will likely remain below SCA for the open 
ocean and LIS waters with a stronger inversion, but SCA seas 
likely on the ocean in 15-20kt SW flow. 

A strong backdoor cold front moves from e to w late Sat aft/eve
which would bring a quick wind shift and potential for a brief 
burst of SCA easterly winds in its wake, subsiding below SCA
later Sat Night into Sunday. The elevated ocean seas with SCA 
levels will probably continue through the rest of the weekend, 
especially for eastern ocean zones.

An extended period of SCA cond likely on the ocean into Tue night
as seas remain elevated, first via long fetch S flow up to 20 kt 
on Mon, then in NW flow gusting to 25 kt Mon night into Tue AM 
after a cold frontal passage followed by lingering swell. The non 
ocean waters may also see minimal SCA cond late Mon night in post-
frontal NW flow but this is less certain.

&&

.HYDROLOGY...
Around a tenth of an inch of rain or less with rain showers
tonight into early Saturday. 

Less than a quarter of an inch of rain expected for showers for
the weekend through Sunday, mainly extreme northern areas.

Rain with the frontal system from late Sunday night into Mon night 
should average around or just over 1/2 inch. There is potential for 
QPF of 3/4 to 1 inch with locally higher amts Wed night into Thu but 
this appears less certain.

No hydrologic impacts expected through the middle of next week.

&&

.OKX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CT...None.
NY...None.
NJ...None.
MARINE...None.

&&

$$

SYNOPSIS...BG/JM
NEAR TERM...JM/NV
SHORT TERM...JM
LONG TERM...BG
AVIATION...JE
MARINE...BG/JM/NV
HYDROLOGY...BG/JM
