982 
FXUS61 KOKX 310517
AFDOKX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service New York NY
117 AM EDT Sat May 31 2025

.SYNOPSIS...
Low pressure will move across the region this morning, followed by a 
cold frontal passage this afternoon and evening. A surface trough 
moves through Sunday evening. High pressure then gradually builds in 
and remains in control through mid-week, with a few more weak 
surface troughs swinging through early in the week. A cold front 
looks to move through sometime Thursday or Friday.

&&

.NEAR TERM /THROUGH TODAY/...
Rainfall is beginning to increase across the area as a well-
organized low approaches from the southwest. This low is expected to 
move over NYC 9or just east of NYC) by mid-morning. 

AS this low approaches, heavy rainfall (which has already started) 
is likely in northern NJ and up and into the Lower Hudson Valley 
with peak rainfall rates of 1 to 2"/hr possible. Areas west and 
north of NYC are under a FLood Watch for this, with scattered 
instances of flash flooding likely. Total rainfall in this area may 
approach 1-2 inches, with some isolated pockets of 3-4" possible in 
heavier showers and thunderstorms. 

Instability is present, but mostly elevated. Heavier downpours and 
gusty winds are possible in thunderstorms into the early morning, 
but not likely to reach severe weather criteria. 

The remainder of the area east of NYC will likely see scattered 
light showers with far less QPF, just under an inch east of Nassau 
county and Fairfield county, down to 0.5" of total rainfall through 
this evening for areas far east on Long Island and SE CT. 

As we get into late morning and early afternoon, the low will begin 
to exit northeast of the area. This brings in drier air & cuts off 
most of the more intense precip. Spotty to isolated showers may 
still occur into the early afternoon.

Another chance for brief downpours with showers and thunderstorms 
may occur with a frontal passage behind the departing low late this 
afternoon into early tonight. Instability is marginal, so only a few 
rumbles of thunder are expected. Flood impacts will be minimal given 
the quicker progression of these showers with the front and given 
coverage will be less compared to this morning. 

&&

.SHORT TERM /TONIGHT THROUGH SUNDAY NIGHT/...
Following the cold frontal passage, drier and cooler air will get 
filtered in tonight. Cooler air will be aided by a large upper-level 
low spinning over the northeast US and under westerly flow, locally.

Dry weather remains until late Sunday into early Sunday night. A few 
isolated showers may briefly return late Sunday into early Sunday 
night aided by pockets of mid-level energy passing with a shortwave 
that rotates around the periphery of an upper-level low still 
sitting over the northeast. This upper-low will remain in place 
through at least Sun night, holding cooler air in the region. 

Low temps both tonight and Sunday night drop into the low-50s at the 
coast, with mid/upper-40s in the interior. Sunday's highs will max 
out in the mid-60s to near 70.

&&

.LONG TERM /MONDAY THROUGH FRIDAY/...
Troughing in the mid and upper levels remains over the northeast 
through early next week with several shortwaves rotating through. In 
turn, several weak surface troughs will swing through as high 
pressure tries to build in from the southwest. These features will 
not result in anything other than some cloud cover. High pressure 
that is centered to our south will slide offshore Tuesday night but 
remain in control through at least Wednesday. A cold front then 
looks to move through sometime Thursday or Friday resulting in some 
showers and thunderstorms.

There is some forecast uncertainty mainly for mid next week as the 
ECMWF has shown a cutoff low just to our south that lingers near the 
area in some past runs. This would result in cooler temperatures, 
more cloud cover and maybe even some precip. However the guidance 
does push this feature farther east so the trend will have to be 
watched. Other guidance is showing this feature, but much farther 
east and not impacting us. General consensus is for ridging to build 
in and a deep S/SW flow to bring warm temperatures up into the 80s 
for mid week.

Overall stuck pretty close to the NBM other than cloud cover for mid 
week. Thinking was it was leaning too much towards the ECMWF cut off 
low situation. Temps will be a bit below normal on Sunday, normal 
Monday and then warm for mid week.

&&

.AVIATION /05Z SATURDAY THROUGH WEDNESDAY/...
Low pressure over eastern Maryland tracks across the NYC metro 
area overnight, then tracks to the north, through New England, 
Saturday. A cold front crosses the terminals Saturday afternoon.

Widespread rain was approaching the region from the southwest,
and IFR to LIFR conditions will become widespread across the
terminals overnight. Local VLIFR is also possible. The rain
likely becomes moderate to briefly heavy at times overnight, 
especially across the NYC metro and W and N. There is also a 
chance for a few thunderstorms, and continued with the PROB30s. 
Conditions are expected to improve to VFR late morning into the 
early afternoon as the low lifts to the north of the terminals. 
There is a chance of additional showers bringing MVFR conditions
for Saturday afternoon with more scattered thunderstorms 
possible, and continued with the PROB30s. Rain may end before 
00Z Sunday, especially across the western terminals.

Low confidence with the wind forecast overnight into Saturday
morning, and is dependent on the track and timing of the low 
moving through the terminals. SE to E winds may become light and
variable before shifting to the W and NW early Saturday morning
with gusts 20-25kt.

 ...NY Metro (KEWR/KLGA/KJFK/KTEB) TAF Uncertainty... 

Amendments expected for timing of lowering conditions, rain, 
and possible thunderstorms late tonight into early Saturday 
morning. 

.OUTLOOK FOR 00Z SUNDAY THROUGH WEDNESDAY... 

Saturday night: VFR. NW winds G20-25kt, ending around 04Z 
Sunday.

Sunday through Wednesday...VFR.

&&

.MARINE...
Wind gusts will approach SCA criteria on the ocean later this 
morning from an approaching low. A building southerly swell is 
forecast to bring SCA conditions to ocean waters this afternoon 
lasting into tonight. In addition, a cold front will move across the 
area waters which could again result in some wind gusts to near 
25kt. A small craft advisory has been issued for the ocean waters 
for today into tonight. 

SCA conditions linger on the ocean waters into Sunday with very 
marginal 20-25 kt gusts and 5 food seas. Thereafter, sub SCA 
conditions expected through at least mid-week. 5 to 6 foot seas 
could return late week ahead of an approaching cold front.

&&

.HYDROLOGY...
A flood watch has been issued for NE NJ and the Lower Hudson Valley, 
in effect now into the morning. Rainfall amounts will range between 
1 and 2 inches, with the potential for locally 3+ inches across the 
watch area. Rainfall rates across NJ and the Lower Hudson Valley may 
be as high as 1 to 2 inches per hour in the heaviest and most 
persistent rain. The heavy rain may result in isolated to scattered 
instances of flash flooding of urban and poor drainage areas, as 
well as a few quick responding rivers, creeks, and streams. WPC has 
an slight risk of excessive rainfall for the watch area. 

There are no hydrologic concerns Sunday through the end of next
week.

&&

.TIDES/COASTAL FLOODING...
Water levels may just barely touch minor flood benchmarks possible 
in the most vulnerable spots with the high tide cycles tonight due 
the passage of a deepening low pressure system. No statements have 
been issued. No additional coastal flooding is expected this weekend 
into early next week. 

With a 5-7 ft southerly swell at 7-8 s, high rip current activity is 
expected on Saturday at the Suffolk County beaches. Swell height and 
period are a bit lower farther west, where a moderate risk is in 
effect. A moderate risk is expected for all beaches on Sunday with 
lowering swell and still no real onshore wind component.

&&

.OKX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CT...None.
NY...Flood Watch until 11 AM EDT this morning for NYZ067>071.
     High Risk for Rip Currents from 6 AM EDT this morning through this 
     evening for NYZ080-081.
NJ...Flood Watch until 11 AM EDT this morning for NJZ002-004-006-
     103>108.
MARINE...Small Craft Advisory from 6 AM this morning to 6 PM EDT Sunday 
     for ANZ350-353.
     Small Craft Advisory from 6 AM this morning to 8 AM EDT Sunday 
     for ANZ355.

&&

$$

SYNOPSIS...BR/JT
NEAR TERM...BR
SHORT TERM...BR
LONG TERM...JT
AVIATION...MET
MARINE...BR/JT
HYDROLOGY...BR/JT
TIDES/COASTAL FLOODING...
