696 
FXUS61 KOKX 031807
AFDOKX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service New York NY
107 PM EST Mon Feb 3 2025

.SYNOPSIS...
A cold front approaches from the Great Lakes today and passes 
through the area late tonight. High pressure will then build in 
from the Great Lakes through Wednesday. A frontal system will 
approach Wednesday night and impact the area into Thursday 
evening. High pressure will then return for Thursday night into 
Friday night, then slide east on Saturday. Another frontal 
system will begin to approach Saturday afternoon and impact the 
area into Sunday.

&&

.NEAR TERM /UNTIL 6 PM THIS EVENING/...
There will be plenty of mid and high level clouds across the 
area today in a fast zonal upper flow across the Lower 48. 
Multiple northern branch shortwaves tracking near the 
U.S./Canadian border will send a cold front across the Great 
Lakes slowly southeast today. Ahead of the front, a mild W/SW 
flow will back around to the S at less generally less than 10 
mph. Highs will top out in the lower 40s with perhaps a few 
warmer locations in and around the NYC metro. This is a few
degrees above normal. 

&&

.SHORT TERM /6 PM THIS EVENING THROUGH WEDNESDAY/...
For tonight, a cold front approaches from the north and west.
The cold front moves through late. Most of the shortwave energy
will be displaced well north of the region and mid level dry air
will keep conditions dry at the surface. Some model guidance is
indicating potential fog advection across outlying coastal
areas. Have patchy fog for Long Island and Southern CT for
tonight.

Just expecting clouds to remain abundant with temperatures not 
dropping too much tonight as the boundary layer stays more mixed
and the clouds limit radiational cooling. Lows forecast range 
from the low to upper 30s.

For Tuesday, highs for the day are likely set in the morning
with post-frontal strengthening NW gusty flow then developing.
This will cause temperatures to be nearly steady late morning 
into the early afternoon and then actually decrease for the 
latter half of the afternoon. Took a blend of NBM and MAV and 
MET guidance for high temperatures and manually lowered an extra
degree. Highs Tuesday range from the upper 30s to lower 40s, 
slightly colder than the previous day.

High pressure continues to build in Tuesday night into
Wednesday. Much colder lows forecast Tuesday night, ranging 
mainly from the upper teens to lower 20s.

The high pressure area centers over the local region on
Wednesday. Dry conditions are expected to remain. Highs from 
NBM on Wednesday and are much colder than previous few days, 
only ranging from low to mid 30s for much of the area.

&&

.LONG TERM /WEDNESDAY NIGHT THROUGH SUNDAY/...
Well-advertised frontal system should begin to approach Wed
night, with increasing PoP for snow throughout to start. Light
accumulations expected, with either side of an inch most places
and perhaps closer to 2 inches well inland west of the Hudson.
As temps warm aloft expect a transition to mixed precip, with 
some light freezing rain on top of this snow late in NE NJ. 
Temps sfc/aloft warm further daytime Thu, with a change to plain
rain during the morning hours, but not before a period of 
possible freezing rain for interior NE NJ and the lower Hudson 
Valley mainly along/NW of I-287 early Thu AM. Rain Thu afternoon
should taper off Thu eve, with dry cond returning for late Thu 
night into Sat AM as strong high pressure moves across. 

Another frontal system will approach this weekend, beginning Sat 
afternoon and continuing into Sunday. Once again, with warmer 
air intruding aloft at first and then at the sfc, p-type 
initially should be all snow, with a change to mixed precip late
Sat night into Sunday AM and all rain by Sunday afternoon. This
system may have better potential for widespread advy snow/ice 
amts given higher forecast QPF.

&&

.AVIATION /15Z MONDAY THROUGH FRIDAY/...
A cold front moves across the terminals late tonight.

VFR through at least early evening. MVFR/IFR in low clouds/fog for 
KISP/KGON by midnight, but potentially impacting KBDR and KJFK as 
well.

S-SW winds 5-10kt this afternoon and evening. WSW winds aloft 
increase ahead of the cold front tonight, and LLWS is likely from 
about 03Z-08Z with speeds 45-50 kt at FL020. Winds then bcmg W to NW 
for the Tuesday morning push with increasing wind speeds. NW gusts 
20-30kt for Tuesday afternoon.


...NY Metro (KEWR/KLGA/KJFK/KTEB) TAF Uncertainty...

Chance that winds do not back towards S-SE this afternoon at 
KEWR/KTEB. Cannot rule out some MVFR at KJFK from approx 02-05z. 

.OUTLOOK FOR 18Z TUESDAY THROUGH SATURDAY... 

Tuesday PM: VFR. NW gusts 20-30kt aftn, then 15-25kt evening. 

Wednesday: VFR. 

Wednesday night: MVFR or lower cond in light snow, mixing with sleet 
late for most terminals, with rain also mixed in at KEWR/KJFK. 

Thursday: MVFR or lower cond as precip changes to freezing
rain/sleet and then rain at KSWF, and to plain rain elsewhere.

Thursday night: Rain ending. West gusts around 20kt possible late. 

Friday: VFR. NW gusts around 25kt. 

Saturday: VFR in the morning. Chance of IFR and snow in the 
afternoon. Mixed precip bcmg likely at night.

Detailed information, including hourly TAF wind component
forecasts, can be found at: https:/www.weather.gov/zny/n90

&&

.MARINE...
Conditions on the waters remain below small craft advisory 
thresholds through this afternoon. Then, conditions increase 
with winds and seas tonight through Tuesday in response to a 
tightening pressure gradient between low pressure well to the 
north and east and high pressure to the north and west. A cold 
front moves across late tonight. 

Ocean seas are first forecast to get SCA level seas along with
gusty SCA winds tonight, east of Fire Island Inlet. Then all
waters reach SCA thresholds for wind gusts Tuesday and probably
much of Tuesday night as well. Conditions return to below SCA
thresholds with weakening pressure gradient on Wednesday as 
high pressure moves overhead.

Increasing long fetch S flow ahead of an approaching frontal
system should bring SCA cond to the ocean waters from Thu into
Thu evening, with seas building to 4-6 ft in the morning and 
then to 5-8 ft at night, along with some 25-kt gusts. Following 
a cold frontal passage late Thu night, winds then shift W then 
NW, with all waters likely to see gusts 25-30 kt. These cond 
improve Fri afternoon on the non ocean waters, then finally on 
the ocean waters by midnight Fri night as winds then seas 
gradually diminish.

&&

.HYDROLOGY...
There are no hydrologic concerns through next weekend.

&&

.OKX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CT...None.
NY...None.
NJ...None.
MARINE...Small Craft Advisory from 9 AM to 6 PM EST Tuesday for ANZ331-
     332-335-338-340-345.
     Small Craft Advisory from 8 PM this evening to 6 PM EST 
     Tuesday for ANZ350-353.
     Small Craft Advisory from 6 AM to 6 PM EST Tuesday for ANZ355.

&&

$$

SYNOPSIS...BG/JM/DW
NEAR TERM...JM/DW
SHORT TERM...JM
LONG TERM...BG
AVIATION...JC
MARINE...BG/JM
HYDROLOGY...BG/JM
