020 
FXUS61 KOKX 170515
AFDOKX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service New York NY
115 AM EDT Mon Mar 17 2025

.SYNOPSIS...
A strong cold front approaches overnight and pushes across into
Monday, pushing offshore Monday evening. High pressure takes 
over thereafter and remains into Wednesday. A fast moving 
frontal system moves across the area Thursday into Thursday 
night. High pressure begins to build back into the area on 
Friday and should remain in control next weekend.

&&

.NEAR TERM /THROUGH TODAY/...
A line of convection across NJ and upstate NY along a 
prefrontal trough will continue to weaken as it pushes east. 
Strong onshore flow will push stable maritime air a bit inland
and along the coast as the this convection pushes east. The 
latest SPC mesoanalysis indicates the axis of higher PWATs goes
right into the eastern half of the CWA for a good portion of the
overnight and nudges a bit further east towards daybreak.

The prefrontal trough and associated cold front moves across
overnight. There will still be showers and embedded elevated 
thunder with the aforementioned weakening convective line, but 
it appears a resurgence of showers will occur from southwest to 
northeast across the area with strengthening LLJ in combination
with increasing upper divergence from a an approaching jet 
streak to our northwest. This will likely induce a weak wave of 
the frontal boundary, which will increase convergence and lift 
overnight. 

Moderate to locally heavy showers are expected to increase in 
coverage for the overnight and predawn hours. PWATs range 
anywhere to around 1.4 to 1.5 inches supporting potential for 
some locally heavy downpours, especially for the eastern half to
2/3rds of the area. Still think a few rumbles of thunder are 
possible, but elevated instability is minimal overnight. SPC
mesoanalysis has indicated a marginal ridge of CAPE nosing
into NE NJ and close to the NYC metro. Thus, continuing with
slight chance and iso thunder. The heaviest rain shifts east of
the NYC metro for the predawn hours, with a steadier stratiform
rain from the city on NW.

Peak hourly rainfall rates from 0.25 to 0.50 inches per hour 
seem most likely, although a few downpours will have a few 
higher instantaneous rates associated with them. MRMS is
currently supporting peak rates of 0.40 to 0.50 in the heavier 
bands over the ocean moving north-northeast. The main concern 
overnight into early Monday will be from minor urban and poor 
drainage flooding. Eastern Long Island and southeast Connecticut
stand the best shot at seeing a longer duration of heavier 
downpours, so cannot completely rule out a localized instance of
flash flooding here and will continue to monitor latest radar 
and MRMS QPE and Flash trends. Rainfall totals around 1.5" to 
2.50" overall are forecast, highest across eastern portions of 
the area. Locally higher amounts cannot be ruled out where the 
heaviest downpours occur. 

Following the exit of the line of rain with the surface trough
by Monday morning, periods of spotty showers could continue 
across the area into Monday afternoon before the cold front 
officially passes later on Monday, leading to drier air finally 
advecting in under a NW wind by evening. 

Southerly winds this evening into the first half of tonight 
could gusts up to 30-35 mph, locally up to 40 mph. Winds will
subside overnight as the pressure gradient relaxes and low level
jet shifts east of the area. The inversion influence by the
onshore flow and slightly cooler boundary layer after sunset
should also help limit peak wind gusts to just below advisory
levels. 

Low temperatures tonight will remain mild and well-above 
average in the low to mid 50. Highs on Monday will continue
above normal in the mid-50s to near 60 with any colder air
arriving late and Monday night.

&&

.SHORT TERM /TONIGHT/...
Surface high pressure takes over tomorrow night as an upper-level 
trough centers itself over the area. Clouds will begin to clear
west to east due an exiting cold front. Much colder air will 
fall in line behind the front tomorrow night. Low are expected 
to drop into the 30s, with a few near or just below freezing in 
the far interior. While much colder than the previous night, 
these lows are are quite seasonal for this time of year.

&&

.LONG TERM /TUESDAY THROUGH SUNDAY/...
Key Points:

* Dry conditions will prevail Tuesday into Thursday morning and then 
  again next weekend with temperatures mainly above average.

* Showers become likely late Thursday and Thursday night along a 
  fast moving frontal system. 

* Breezy and cooler conditions briefly return Friday.
  
The modeling has remained relatively consistent over the last few 
days with the overall pattern progression into next weekend.
The upper trough that slowly moves overhead on Monday will slide 
offshore Tuesday morning. This is in response to a build upper 
ridge. The upper low is still expected to get trapped beneath the 
ridge over the western Atlantic into Wednesday. This will not 
directly impact our weather, but could enhance subsidence with the 
ridging aloft later Tuesday and Wednesday. The upper ridging pushes 
offshore on Thursday ahead of the next upper level trough, which 
likely lifts over the area Thursday night into Friday. The ensemble 
means then indicate a mostly zonal flow for next weekend. 

Surface high pressure will be in control Tuesday and Wednesday 
before moving offshore on Thursday. The aforementioned upper trough 
will send a fast moving frontal system across the area late Thursday 
into Thursday night. The latest model consensus indicates most of 
the daytime Thursday will be dry with just a chance of showers late 
in the afternoon. The cold front sweeps across the area Thursday 
night with the likelihood of showers. Low pressure may develop along 
the front as it passes to our east and help add more lift and 
moisture for the continuation of showers into early Friday morning. 
Guidance has come into better agreement with this scenario, but 
differ on the intensity of the low. The progressive pattern would 
favor the low to quickly push off the New England coast Friday 
morning. The NBM probabilities for greater than an inch of rain in a 
12 or 24 hour period Thursday into Thursday night remain low and 
under 10 percent, consistent with the speed of the system. The 
potential of low pressure on the front may bring a possibility of 
some wet snow flakes mixing in well inland as the system pulls away 
and draws colder air southward. 

Breezy and cooler conditions are expected on Friday under strong 
cold advection and a W-NW flow. Temperatures look to remain in the 
mid and upper 40s for highs which are slightly below average for 
March 21st. Winds will likely gust 25-35 mph. The pressure gradient 
should relax Friday night with high pressure returning for the 
remainder of the weekend. Have kept the forecast dry next weekend 
with a mainly zonal flow aloft.

&&

.AVIATION /05Z MONDAY THROUGH FRIDAY/...
Low pressure and a cold front approach from the west into this 
evening, with the cold front moving into the terminals late
tonight into Monday morning as a wave of low pressure develops
along the front. The frontal wave and cold front will move east
Monday afternoon. 

Conditions still vary across the region, with LIFR cond closer
to the coast at KJFK/KISP/KGON/KHPN and MVFR elsewhere. Bands of
showers should start to fill in from the south, bringing several
hours of IFR vsby in moderate to locally heavy rain tonight
especially E of the NYC metros. S winds gusting to 25-30 kt and
LLWS (S flow 50-60 kt at FL020) will also continue through most
of tonight along with this activity.

Showers gradually taper off late tonight into Mon morning, but 
conditions could remain IFR/LIFR as winds diminish and become
variable with slow passage of the front and wave of low
pressure. Improvement on Mon will be slow to occur, with MVFR 
from late morning into early afternoon at the NYC metros hanging
on through the rest of the day. IFR cond may last at KBDR/KISP 
into late afternoon and at KGON through the period. 

As the cold front and frontal wave move into the region, winds 
and gusts will diminish, and may for a time even become variable
less than 10 kt. Timing of these diminishing winds remains
somewhat uncertain. As the front passes east, winds shift to 
the W and then NW-N, gusting to 20-25 kt late in the afternoon.

 ...NY Metro (KEWR/KLGA/KJFK/KTEB) TAF Uncertainty...

Unscheduled AMD likely to address changes in flight categories
and timing of rain and wind shifts. 

.OUTLOOK FOR 00Z TUESDAY THROUGH FRIDAY...

Monday night: VFR at the NYC terminals and west, MVFR/IFR east
early in the evening, becoming VFR throughout. NW-N winds 
G20-25kt.

Tuesday and Wednesday: VFR.

Thursday: IFR/LIFR cigs possible in the morning mainly E of the
NYC metros. Chance of showers with MVFR cond possible. S winds 
10-15 kt with G20-25 kt, winds shifting W during the evening.

Friday: VFR at the NYC terminals and west, MVFR/IFR east with 
showers ending late in the day, becoming VFR throughout. NW 
wind 15-20 kt with G20-30kt. 

Detailed information, including hourly TAF wind component
forecasts, can be found at: https:/www.weather.gov/zny/n90

&&

.MARINE...
A strong cold front impacts the waters into Monday. Some fog for
the ocean waters will translate east and northeast overnight
with the heavier shower activity moving in, overall 
visibilities should remain above 1 nm.

S winds should increase overnight as a stronger low level jet 
passes over the waters. While a strong inversion will be in 
place, winds beneath may approach gales on the ocean and the 
eastern Sound. For this reason a gale warning is in effect into 
early Monday morning. A Small Craft Advisory remains in effect 
elsewhere through tonight. SCA conditions will continue on the 
ocean through Monday night due to elevated seas.

Winds on all waters should remain below SCA levels Tuesday through 
much of Thursday. Ocean seas will remain elevated at or above 5 ft 
during this period mainly due to lingering SE swells. The next chance 
for SCA winds will be Thursday night behind a cold front passage. 
There is also potential for gales on the waters on Friday under a 
strong NW flow and cold advection over the warmer waters. Seas will 
remain elevated to end the week.

&&

.HYDROLOGY...
Rainfall of 1.5-2.5 inches expected into early Monday, with the
higher amts across eastern Long Island and SE CT. 
Nuisance flooding is the main concern.

&&

.OKX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CT...None.
NY...None.
NJ...None.
MARINE...Small Craft Advisory until 6 AM EDT early this morning for 
     ANZ331-335-338-345.
     Gale Warning until 6 AM EDT early this morning for ANZ332-350-
     353-355.
     Small Craft Advisory until 8 AM EDT this morning for ANZ340.

&&

$$

SYNOPSIS...BR/DS
NEAR TERM...JE/BR
SHORT TERM...BR
LONG TERM...DS
AVIATION...BG
MARINE...BR/DS
HYDROLOGY...BR/DS
