634 
FXUS61 KOKX 091117
AFDOKX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service New York NY
717 AM EDT Wed Apr 9 2025

.SYNOPSIS...
High pressure through Thursday gives way to a broad area of low 
pressure that will impact the area for Friday into the weekend. 
A transitory high pressure ridge then builds in on Monday. Another
frontal system may impact the area on Tuesday.

&&

.NEAR TERM /THROUGH TONIGHT/...
Zonal flow aloft for the period with high pressure centered to our 
south over the Mid-Atlantic, shifting offshore this afternoon. High 
confidence in a dry and sunny day today that won't feel as cold as 
it did yesterday as temperatures will be a little warmer in most 
cases with lighter winds. 

Clouds increase tonight, helping prevent temperatures falling as low 
as they did this morning. No frost/freeze headlines needed. NBM with 
some minor local adjustments looked good for temps through the near 
term period.

&&

.SHORT TERM /THURSDAY THROUGH FRIDAY NIGHT/...
Main story for the short term period will be rainfall for Friday and 
Friday night, but right now potential impacts look rather limited. 
Before then, a mostly cloudy but mainly dry day for Thursday. 

Good agreement among the models for a digging 500mb trough to our 
west Thursday night into Friday with a closing upper low that slowly 
shifts east, eventually passing through this weekend. Attendant 
surface low strengthens over the Mid-Atlantic Friday into Friday 
night and likely shifts offshore to our south late at night. There 
appears to be at least some chance of rainfall Thursday night 
through Friday morning, followed by rain becoming likely generally 
SW to NE across the forecast area Friday afternoon into night. Looks 
like the period with the highest potential for impacts is during the 
late night hours when lift could be enhanced via an east to west 
oriented low level jet and perhaps some synoptic scale lift with an 
approaching left exit region of an upper jet streak. Mitigating 
factors for heavy rain include modest PWAT values during this time 
and no strong signals for either convection occurring or for flash 
flood guidance values being reached. NBM probability for 1 inch of 
rainfall in a 6-hour period during Friday night is only around 10% 
and has been this way for a few days now. With that said, individual 
deterministic guidance from the 00z suite shows better chances of 
reaching this threshold somewhere within or near the forecast area.
WPC maintains a marginal (5%) risk for flash flooding to occur here 
during this period.

Models are in good agreement that the pressure gradient doesn't get 
tight enough for wind concerns at this time. The strength of the low 
level jet doesn't look too concerning either, especially with a 
strong low level inversion. It will nevertheless probably be breezy 
for coastal areas for both day and night. NBM looked good for 
temperatures through the short term period.

&&

.LONG TERM /SATURDAY THROUGH TUESDAY/...
The large low pressure system impacting the area into Saturday 
morning should begin to push eastward with most of the heavier 
precipitation ending by Saturday afternoon. The large upper level 
trough that the low pressure was forced by will meander over the 
East Coast through at least Sunday night. This overhead trough will 
allow for the surface low pressure system, at this point centered 
east of the area, to slowly occlude. The added cool air aloft will 
provide for the chance for additional light rain showers through 
Sunday, though any showers may end up being more scattered with some 
breaks of sun.

Accompanied with the overhead trough will be temperatures that will 
be largely below average. High temperatures on Saturday will only be 
in the upper 40s to near 50. Some subtle moderation is expected for 
Sunday with highs in the middle to possibly upper 50s.

The trough pushes to the east on Monday with a ridge forcing surface 
high pressure to build in. This will result in both dry conditions 
with warming temperatures through Tuesday. Highs Monday will be in 
the 60s to near 70 possible for the NYC metro, with temperatures on 
Tuesday in the upper 60s to low 70s for the NYC metro and NE NJ.

Another frontal system looks to impact the area as the primary low 
passes to the north of the area sometime on Tuesday. This may bring 
another chance of showers before the cold front ushers in cooler air 
once again for Wednesday.

&&

.AVIATION /11Z WEDNESDAY THROUGH SUNDAY/...
High pressure builds into the region then slides offshore later
today.

VFR. 

NW/WNW winds continue to with sustained winds of 10-15 kt this
morning with some gusts upwards of 20-25kt. Gusts expected to 
end after 15Z for most terminals, but there is some uncertainty
as to when gusts end by several hours. Gusts may end up being 
more occasional through 18Z. Wind directions shift to the W, 
then SW this afternoon as the high pressure pushes offshore. 
Winds become light and variable later this evening into early 
Thursday morning.
 
     NY Metro (KEWR/KLGA/KJFK/KTEB) TAF Uncertainty... 

End time of gusts may be off by several hours. Gusts may be more 
occasional through 18Z.

.OUTLOOK FOR 12Z THURSDAY THROUGH SATURDAY...

Thursday: Mainly VFR through much of the day, MVFR possible late in 
the afternoon and overnight with a chance of showers.

Friday: MVFR likely with IFR possible in showers. E-SE wind 
gusts 15-20 kt possible.

Saturday: MVFR or lower possible. Chance of showers. E-SE wind gusts 
15-20 kt possible.

Sunday: VFR. Low end chance of an MVFR shower.

Detailed information, including hourly TAF wind component forecasts, 
can be found at: https:/www.weather.gov/zny/n90

&&

.MARINE...
Winds and seas diminish today. No changes made with Small Craft 
Advisories at this point, with all zones prevailing below criteria 
by the end of this morning. High pressure then brings relatively 
tranquil conditions this afternoon through Thursday. Next chance of 
advisory conditions then arrives late Thursday night, and becoming 
likely for Friday and Friday night with the approach of low
pressure.

SCA conditions persist on the ocean on Saturday with wave heights 5-
8 feet expected. Any marginal SCA gust on Saturday morning should 
diminish to sub-SCA by the afternoon. Waves on the ocean will remain 
above 5 feet through at least Sunday night.

&&

.HYDROLOGY...
There are no hydrologic concerns through Thursday. 

Rainfall for Friday afternoon through Saturday afternoon is expected 
to be 1-2 inches. Hydrologic impacts appear to be limited at this 
time and most likely would be minor.

Thereafter, no hydrologic concerns through the middle of next 
week.

&&

.OKX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CT...None.
NY...Freeze Warning until 9 AM EDT this morning for NYZ072>075-
     176>179.
NJ...Freeze Warning until 9 AM EDT this morning for NJZ006-106-108.
MARINE...Small Craft Advisory until 8 AM EDT this morning for ANZ331-
     332-340-345-355.
     Small Craft Advisory until 11 AM EDT this morning for ANZ350-
     353.

&&

$$

SYNOPSIS...JC/MW
NEAR TERM...JC
SHORT TERM...JC
LONG TERM...MW
AVIATION...MW
MARINE...JC/MW
HYDROLOGY...JC/MW
