295 
FXUS61 KOKX 081827
AFDOKX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service New York NY
227 PM EDT Sun Jun 8 2025

.SYNOPSIS...
Weak high pressure today gives way to an area of low pressure 
passing to the south and east tonight into Monday. A slow moving 
frontal system will then work across the area Tuesday into Tuesday 
night. High pressure returns Wednesday and remains near the region through 
early Friday. Another frontal system may affect the region late 
Friday into the weekend.

&&

.NEAR TERM /THROUGH TONIGHT/...
Will need to keep an eye for the potential for the need of a
dense fog advisory across parts of the NW zones early this
morning with light to calm winds combine with residual low 
level moisture from yesterday's rainfall. SPS has been issued in
the meantime to address the likelihood of at least patchy dense
fog. Visibilities should improve within a couple of hours of 
sunrise.

High pressure center shifts through northern New England today, and 
should be strong enough to keep us dry through this morning with 
only shallow moisture in place. Low to mid level moisture then 
increases this afternoon with weak shortwave lift arriving from the 
south and west late in the day. Chance of light rain by the end of 
the day, mainly for the western half of the forecast area.

A weak wave of low pressure then approaches from the south tonight, 
remaining offshore. Added moisture and lift increase the chances of 
rain for eastern portions of the area, meanwhile moisture 
convergence and lift with an approaching warm front increase rain 
chances for western portions. PoPs capped at 50% tonight.

NBM looked good for temperatures through the near term.

&&

.SHORT TERM /MONDAY THROUGH TUESDAY NIGHT/...
Disagreement among the models regarding the advancement of the 
approaching low pressure wave during the day on Monday, which could 
very well just weaken to the point of being part of a surface trough 
or warm front that stalls nearby. Therefore kept in at least a 
slight chance of rain. Most of the day will at least be dry.

Great Lakes closed low drifts across southern Ontario on Tuesday and 
then shears NE through southern Quebec Tuesday night. Good model 
agreement in an associated trough axis approaching Tuesday/Tue eve 
and pivoting through late Tue night/Wed.

At the surface, a cold front approaches from the west while either a 
trough or new weak wave of low pressure approaches from the SW.
Large scale synoptic lift from the approaching trough and modest 
lift from the right rear quadrant of an upper jet streak combines 
with +1.5 - 2 std PWAT for increasing shower activity from the west 
Tuesday morning. Basin average model QPF is relatively light 
overall, but there's potential for locally heavy downpours and 
elevated thunder, particularly N&W of NYC with the best co-location 
of mid/upper forcing, weak elevated instability and orographic 
enhancement of an E/SE low-level flow. Additionally, the storm 
motion would appear to align with a slow moving cold front, which 
would promote cell training. WPC has a marginal risk of excessive 
rainfall dropping into portions of the Lower Hudson Valley during 
this time. Best upper level forcing and instability seem to lag the 
surface features, minimizing a localized flash flood threat farther 
SE towards the coast. Due to weak instability, strong to severe 
thunderstorm threat appears limited despite strong shear profiles. 
Shower/thunderstorm activity should taper from W to E later Tue 
aft/early eve as the surface wave, trough axis/cold front slide 
through.

&&

.LONG TERM /WEDNESDAY THROUGH SATURDAY/...
The long term period starts with high pressure building into the 
region on Wednesday in the wake of the front. The high will remain 
over the area through much of Friday. Expect dry and warm 
conditions. Temperatures on Wednesday will climb into the lower and 
middle 80s. Temperatures will warm a few degrees for Thursday and 
Friday with highs in the middle to upper 80s. Can not rule out some 
90 degree temperatures in NYC/NJ metro area. Temperatures may be 
cooler right along the immediate coast. 

Another frontal boundary and low pressure system will move into the 
area late Friday into Friday night and remain near the region 
through the weekend. Expect unsettled conditions through this 
period, however not confident both days will be a rainout. 
Temperatures will be cooler for the weekend with highs in the
70s.

&&

.AVIATION /18Z SUNDAY THROUGH FRIDAY/...
A frontal boundary will remain stalled south of the area 
terminals through Monday.

VFR conditions will lower to MVFR late this afternoon then to
IFR as a frontal boundary begins to push north. Rain and drizzle
expected tonight and into Monday morning. IFR/MVFR conditions
continue on Monday.

Easterly winds will continue through Monday around 08-12kt. 

 ...NY Metro (KEWR/KLGA/KJFK/KTEB) TAF Uncertainty... 

Amendments possible throughout the entire TAF period for changing 
flight categories, especially during this afternoon/evening.

.OUTLOOK FOR 18Z TUESDAY THROUGH FRIDAY... 

Tuesday: MVFR or lower possible with shwrs and tstms. Varying 
winds with a frontal sys.

Wednesday - Thursday: VFR with W flow. 

Friday: VFR.

Detailed information, including hourly TAF wind component forecasts, 
can be found at: https:/www.weather.gov/zny/n90

&&

.MARINE...
Sub-advisory conditions through at least Monday night. Swell may 
help build ocean seas to 5 ft starting late in the day Tuesday and 
continue into the night. There will be a potential for some 5 
ft seas continuing on Wednesday, mainly in S swells as a result
of a slow moving frontal system. Also, some m marginal 
nearshore SCA gusts possible during the day Wed in offshore flow
behind cold front. Any SCA seas should fall below SCA 
conditions late Wednesday as high pressure builds towards the 
water, continuing thru Friday.

&&

.HYDROLOGY...
No hydrologic impacts through Monday night.

Showers and embedded thunderstorms Tuesday may produce a basin wide 
1/4 to 3/4" of rain. Localized 1+" amounts possible, particularly 
N&W of NYC, presenting a low and localized threat of flash flooding 
during the daytime.

&&

.TIDES/COASTAL FLOODING...
SE swells remain at 3-4 ft today, mixed with a long period SE 
background swell and a building 2 to 3 ft E wind wave. This should 
maintain a moderate to high risk of rips with a west to east sweep 
of 3 to 4 ft, occasionally 5 ft breaking surf. An E to W longshore 
current will likely become favored in the afternoon.

A moderate to possibly high rip risk likely on Monday with 3-4 
ft ESE wind waves building, and a background of 1-2 ft SE/S 
swells. E to W longshore current would be favored.

&&

.OKX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CT...None.
NY...High Risk for Rip Currents until 9 PM EDT this evening for NYZ075-
     080-081-178-179.
NJ...None.
MARINE...None.

&&

$$
