478 
FXUS61 KOKX 152320
AFDOKX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service New York NY
720 PM EDT Tue Jul 15 2025

.SYNOPSIS...
A weak frontal boundary will remain near the region through the
day on Wednesday before lifting to the north Wednesday night. A
surface trough moves slowly across the region Thursday followed
by a cold front late Thursday night into Friday morning. High 
pressure builds in Friday and moves offshore Saturday. A warm 
front moves through the region Sunday followed by a cold front 
Sunday night into Monday. High pressure builds to the north for 
Tuesday.

&&

.NEAR TERM /UNTIL 6 AM WEDNESDAY MORNING/...
Upper ridging builds into the region yielding dry conditions 
through the overnight. The atmosphere will remain quite moist 
though, leading to another round of low clouds and patchy fog 
overnight, especially eastern Long Island and across southern
CT/Lower Hudson Valley. With plenty of cloud cover, low 
temperatures will only fall to around 70 in typically cooler 
locations and to the mid 70s in the New York City metro area.

&&

.SHORT TERM /6 AM WEDNESDAY MORNING THROUGH WEDNESDAY NIGHT/...
Upper ridging moves offshore during the day as a shortwave 
approaches the region from the southwest before crossing the 
area Wednesday night.

Low clouds and patchy fog to start the day should give way to 
gradual clearing by mid to late morning before clouds quickly 
return ahead of the approaching shortwave. The abundance of 
clouds may help limit temperatures somewhat, but with dewpoints 
in the mid 70s, heat index values will rise into the mid to 
upper 90s across the majority of the area. With hot and humid 
conditions continuing on Thursday, a Heat Advisory has been 
issued for the entire region with the exception of eastern 
Suffolk County. 

The approaching shortwave will spark scattered convection by 
late afternoon for locations west of NYC, gradually translating 
eastward across the rest of the area through the overnight 
hours. While the overall severe threat remains minimal, with 
precipitable water values at or above 2 inches any showers and 
storms will be capable of producing heavy rain and localized 
flash flooding. The flooding threat may be locally maximized 
across portions of northeast New Jersey and the Lower Hudson 
Valley given the wet antecedent conditions, but confidence in 
the location of any heavier rainfall remains too low for a Flood
Watch at this time.

&&

.LONG TERM /THURSDAY THROUGH TUESDAY/...
***Key Points***

* Heat and humidity continues for Thursday with a Heat Advisory in 
  effect for most of the region. A few locations across northeastern 
  New Jersey may reach heat indices around 105 Thursday afternoon.

* Showers and thunderstorms likely Thursday ahead of a cold front. 
  Dry conditions return Friday and Saturday.

The peak of the heat and humidity will likely occur during 
Thursday with heat indices across all but the Twin Forks of Long
Island reaching into the upper 90s to 100 to 104. A few 
locations across northeastern New Jersey may peak at around 105,
which is Heat Warning levels. However, with extensive cloud 
cover, and showers and thunderstorms becoming likely during the 
afternoon, confidence in reaching these heat index levels is 
low, therefore a Heat Warning was not issued at this time. Also,
the timing of the cold front has increased, with the passage 
now late Thursday night into Friday morning. And with the 
quicker timing of the passage drier air will be moving into the 
region, so despite the continued heat, peak heat indices will 
likely fall below advisory levels. With high precipitable water 
values of 2 to 2.25 inches Thursday and showers and 
thunderstorms have the potential of producing heavy rainfall, 
with the threat of localized flooding.

High pressure builds into the region for Friday and moves 
offshore Saturday. The cold front that moved through Friday 
morning remains south of the region, and possibly moves into a 
portion of the region Sunday before stalling as high pressure 
passes well to the north. Another cold front passes Sunday night
into Monday, and may stall near the region into Tuesday.

&&

.AVIATION /00Z WEDNESDAY THROUGH SUNDAY/...
A weak frontal boundary remains over the terminals into
Wednesday before lifting late in the day and night. 

Mainly VFR. MVFR-IFR conditions possible overnight/early
Wednesday morning, mainly east of the NYC metro terminals. 
There is a chance for showers and thunderstorm late Wednesday 
afternoon into Wednesday evening. 

S-SE winds weaken this evening, becoming light and variable
overnight. S-SE winds 10 kt or less expected on Wednesday. 

 ...NY Metro (KEWR/KLGA/KJFK/KTEB) TAF Uncertainty...
MVFR/IFR visibilities possible late tonight/early Wednesday,
mainly before 12z. 

.OUTLOOK FOR 00Z THURSDAY THROUGH SUNDAY... 

Wednesday-Thursday: Mainly VFR. Afternoon and evening showers
and thunderstorms possible. MVFR or lower possible Wednesday
night east of the NYC metro terminals. 

Friday-Saturday: Mainly VFR. 

Sunday: Showers/thunderstorms possible with a chance of MVFR.

Detailed information, including hourly TAF wind component
forecasts, can be found at: https:/www.weather.gov/zny/n90

&&

.MARINE...
Sub-SCA conditions are expected through Wednesday night, with 
winds generally remaining under 15 kt and seas remaining under 3
ft on the ocean.

Winds and seas across the forecast waters remain below advisory
levels Thursday. However, with an increasing and persistent 
southwest flow ahead of an approaching cold front a few gusts 
may be near SCA and ocean seas will be building and may approach
5 feet late in the day. And by Thursday evening ocean seas, 
mainly east of Fire Island Inlet, will build to SCA levels. With
the passage of the cold front late Thursday night into early 
Friday morning seas will subside below advisory levels. 
Conditions will then remain below advisory the remainder of 
Friday through Sunday night.

&&

.HYDROLOGY...
Localized flash flooding is possible from scattered afternoon 
and evening convection on Wednesday. Hydrologic impacts are not 
expected Thursday through early next week.

&&

.TIDES/COASTAL FLOODING...
There is a low rip current risk on Wednesday as a light 
southerly flow continues with around 2 foot waves. With a 
strengthening southwest flow Thursday, the risk for rip current 
development will be moderate. Waves will be 2 to around 3 feet.

&&

.OKX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CT...Air Quality Alert from 11 AM to 11 PM EDT Wednesday for CTZ005-
     009.
     Heat Advisory from 11 AM Wednesday to 10 PM EDT Thursday for 
     CTZ005>012.
NY...Air Quality Alert from 11 AM to 11 PM EDT Wednesday for 
     NYZ069>075-176-178.
     Heat Advisory from 11 AM Wednesday to 10 PM EDT Thursday for 
     NYZ067>075-078-080-176>179.
NJ...Heat Advisory from 11 AM Wednesday to 10 PM EDT Thursday for 
     NJZ002-004-006-103>108.
MARINE...None.

&&

$$

SYNOPSIS...FEB/MET
NEAR TERM...FEB
SHORT TERM...FEB
LONG TERM...MET
AVIATION...DS
MARINE...FEB/MET
HYDROLOGY...FEB/MET
TIDES/COASTAL FLOODING...
