143 
FXUS61 KOKX 091952
AFDOKX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service New York NY
352 PM EDT Sun Mar 9 2025

.SYNOPSIS...
High pressure builds south of the region through Monday. Local 
region in between lows southeast and north of the region for 
Tuesday. A cold front approaches late Tuesday and moves across 
late Tuesday night into early Wednesday. High pressure briefly 
builds Wednesday into Wednesday night before moving towards the 
Canadian Maritimes. Weak low pressure approaches Thursday into 
early Friday. Region will then be in between high pressure in 
the Western Atlantic and approaching developing low pressure to 
the west heading into next weekend.

&&

.NEAR TERM /UNTIL 6 AM MONDAY MORNING/...
Upr wave exiting the region this aftn will leave windy cond in place 
into the eve. As the bl cools, winds will diminish this eve. Another 
jet max however passes thru overnight and the associated subsidence 
looks to kick winds back up slightly overnight. Main impact with 
this is to make the temp fcst challenging. Went close to the NBM 
given the mixing winds expected. If things remain decoupled, 
particularly across the interior, lows will end up several degrees 
colder. 

&&

.SHORT TERM /6 AM MONDAY MORNING THROUGH MONDAY NIGHT/...
Weak low pres tracking ewd across the Gulf of ME, along with NW
flow aloft, will be conducive to wly llvl flow thru most of the
day on Mon. This is a warm signal. As the flow aloft weakens 
17-20Z, the sea breeze should begin to overspread the coasts. 
This should still allow most areas to warm significantly thru 
the late mrng into the early aftn. Mixed down temps from h85 
then blended in the NBM to produce the high temp grid. Went a 
good deal abv the NBM for LI and parts of CT, bringing almost 
the entire cwa aoa 60 degrees. If the flow ends up a bit S of W,
or the sea breeze develops too quickly, these numbers will be 
too warm.

A dry airmass and broad subsidence should produce no pcpn and few 
clouds. There should be some cu invof the sea breeze.

Light sly flow Mon ngt with mainly skc. There could be enough return 
flow llvl moisture to allow for some shallow fog to develop. The 
prob is too low however attm to include in the fcst. Went with the 
NBM for temps.

&&

.LONG TERM /TUESDAY THROUGH SUNDAY/...
Mainly dry through much of the long term. Possibilities for rain 
showers Thursday through Thursday night and a higher possibility for 
next weekend, especially for next Sunday. Temperatures overall are 
forecast to be above normal on average.

More amplified pattern develops for next weekend. Stronger low 
approaches with a strengthening cold front for next Sunday. 
Potential for heavy rain and gusty winds with strong meridional flow 
ahead of it.

Upper and mid level flow quasi-zonal much of the long term, with 
strengthening SW flow for next weekend. Region mainly in between 
northern and southern branches of the upper jet. Upper jet southern 
branch starts to move into the region for the latter half of next 
weekend.

At the surface, weak pressure gradient Tuesday in place across the 
area with the area in between systems. Low in Southeast Canada 
brings a cold front to the region late Tuesday into early Wednesday. 
Cold front expected to move across dry with a lack of available 
moisture.

High pressure from Great Lakes and Southeast Canada then briefly 
builds into the region Wednesday into Wednesday night. High pressure 
moves into the Canadian Maritimes Thursday. Weak low pressure 
associated with an inverted trough sets up Thursday across the 
region. The region will have more easterly flow. Possible rain 
showers in the forecast but just slight chance.

Warming trend for Friday into the weekend. Friday and Friday night 
forecast is dry but chances for rain showers increase for next 
weekend. Saturday appears to be mainly dry but likelihood increases 
substantially next Sunday for rain showers.

&&

.AVIATION /20Z SUNDAY THROUGH FRIDAY/...
A surface trough passes through this afternoon with another
Monday morning, followed by weak high pressure.

VFR. Strengthening W/SW winds this afternoon will gusts 
25-30kt, but then quickly diminish this evening. Winds will 
back to the SW at 5-10kt tonight, then veer to the W/NW Monday 
morning.

 ...NY Metro (KEWR/KLGA/KJFK/KTEB) TAF Uncertainty...

Timing of wind shifts may vary by 1-2 hours. Gusts may be a bit
lower than currently forecast this afternoon. 

.OUTLOOK FOR 18Z MONDAY THROUGH THURSDAY...

Monday Afternoon: VFR. Chance of an afternoon seabreeze.

Tuesday-Wednesday: VFR.

Thursday: MVFR or lower possible with E flow. Slight chance of
showers. 

Friday: VFR.

Detailed information, including hourly TAF wind component forecasts, 
can be found at: https:/www.weather.gov/zny/n90

&&

.MARINE...
Winds decrease early this eve, so the sca is set to expire most of 
the waters at 00Z. Residual 5 ft seas however on the ocean, 
especially the ern portion, so the sca was extended there thru Mon. 
Winds and seas blw sca lvls Mon ngt.

Sub-SCA conditions forecast for all waters Tuesday through Tuesday 
night. Non-ocean waters forecast to stay below SCA. Probable SCA 
conditions for the ocean Wednesday through Friday. All waters 
forecast to return to below SCA conditions Friday night.

&&

.FIRE WEATHER...
An SPS remains in effect for nern NJ til 00Z. Gusty winds will
diminish this eve, and RH will recover as well. Min RH in the 
20s to around 30 on Mon, along with W winds 10-20 mph. A sea 
breeze will develop after noon at the coasts resulting in a wind
shift.

&&

.HYDROLOGY...
There are no hydrologic concerns expected this week.

&&

.OKX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CT...None.
NY...None.
NJ...None.
MARINE...Small Craft Advisory until 8 PM EDT this evening for ANZ331-
     332-335-338-340-345-355.
     Small Craft Advisory until 6 PM EDT Monday for ANZ350-353.

&&

$$

SYNOPSIS...JMC/JM
NEAR TERM...JMC
SHORT TERM...JMC
LONG TERM...JM
AVIATION...DW
MARINE...JMC/JM
FIRE WEATHER...JMC
HYDROLOGY...JMC/JM
