683 
FXUS61 KOKX 221511
AFDOKX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service New York NY
1011 AM EST Sat Feb 22 2025

.SYNOPSIS...
High pressure remains south of the region through Sunday, then
moves offshore Sunday night into Monday. A weak cold front 
moves through Tuesday night. Weak high pressure briefly returns 
Wednesday before a frontal system likely affects the region on 
Thursday into early Friday. High pressure briefly follows the 
exit of this system before another low could impact us next 
weekend.

&&

.NEAR TERM /UNTIL 6 PM THIS EVENING/...
Surface high pressure will be centered over the southern states
today with mainly sunny skies. High clouds are expected to move
in late in the day as low pressure moves into southeastern 
Canada. Temperatures continue to moderate, but will still be 
below normal.

&&

.SHORT TERM /6 PM THIS EVENING THROUGH MONDAY/...
Low pressure passes well to the north tonight with mainly high
clouds over the region, as high pressure remains to the south. A
light westerly flow and the cloud cover will prevent ideal
radiational cooling, and temperatures will be several degrees
higher than Saturday morning lows.

High pressure to the south will remain in control through Monday
with temperatures continuing to moderate. With light winds
Sunday night temperatures across outlying locations and the Long
Island Pine Barrens will drop into the lower 20s, with upper 20s
to lower 30s across the rest of the region.

&&

.LONG TERM /MONDAY NIGHT THROUGH FRIDAY/...
Key Points:

* Warmer temperatures Tue-Thu with highs in the mid-40s to mid-50s.

* Mainly dry Tue - Wed, although a small chance for a passing shower 
  on Tuesday.

* Thursday into Friday may see our next best chance for rain with a 
  frontal system, although timing and intensity still varies.

* Another low could impact us this weekend. 

Mainly zonal flow aloft as a shortwave trough passes far to the 
north in Canada Monday night. At the same time a trough digs into 
the Ohio River Valley Monday night, moving across the northeast 
Tuesday. This trough brings with it a weak surface low. Any precip 
that occurs with this will be rain. However, capped chances at only 
slight, given the surface low's position may be too far north and 
the fact that there will be a lack of moisture to bring about any 
significant rainfall. 

Heights then rise aloft through early Thursday. Warm air advection 
will lead to temperatures remaining above seasonal Tuesday through 
Thursday with highs ranging from the mid-40s to mid-50s. Lows during 
this timeframe look to be above freezing in the 30s. 

Two solutions present themselves Thursday into Friday. The 
00Z GDPS/ICON/ECMWF bring a surface low from the Great Lakes 
region with a longwave trough that digs across the Central US to the 
northeast Thursday into Friday. Timing and intensity still vary 
between these three models. Given the track of the low, likely will 
see rain with this system. The 00Z GFS appears to be the lone wolf 
model at the moment, presenting us with a different solution. All 
models develop a deepening trough as a southern stream jet stream 
helps amplify the trough. However, the GFS appears to develop a 
southern stream upper-level shortwave with this jet stream which 
then moves up into the northeast Thursday followed by the longwave 
trough moving in Friday after it. This first shortwave looks to 
bring a surface low up the coast, which could end up leaving 
temperatures a little colder than the other models, leading to some 
snow or mixed precip in the interior during the Thursday-Thursday 
night timeframe. Because of the uncertainty, have capped POPs at 
chance during this timeframe. 

Slightly cooler temperatures follow on Friday with highs in the 
mid/low-40s and overnight lows at freezing into the mid/low-20s. 

Guidance for the weekend still varies quite a bit to go to into any 
significant detail. However, it does look like there may be a chance 
for another low to impact us on Saturday or Sunday.

&&

.AVIATION /15Z SATURDAY THROUGH WEDNESDAY/...
VFR as high pressure builds to the south. Diminishing NW winds 
become W by noon, then SW around 10 kt this afternoon, dropping
below 10 kt tonight.

 ...NY Metro (KEWR/KLGA/KJFK/KTEB) TAF Uncertainty...

No unscheduled amendments expected. 

.OUTLOOK FOR 12Z SUNDAY THROUGH WEDNESDAY...

Monday - Monday Night: VFR. 

Tuesday: Chance of showers with MVFR cond possible at KSWF/KHPN, 
otherwise VFR. 

Wednesday: VFR. 

Detailed information, including hourly TAF wind component
forecasts, can be found at: https:/www.weather.gov/zny/n90

&&

.MARINE...
Winds and seas will remain sub advisory across the forecast 
waters through Monday with high pressure in control.

Increasing S-SW flow may bring potential for 25-kt gusts and
5-ft seas on the ocean waters Mon night into Tue after a warm
frontal passage and ahead of an approaching cold front.

Conditions are expected to fall below SCA criteria thereafter.

&&

.HYDROLOGY...
No hydrologic impacts are expected through the start of next 
weekend.

&&

.OKX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CT...None.
NY...None.
NJ...None.
MARINE...None.

&&

$$

SYNOPSIS...BR/MET
NEAR TERM...MET/DW
SHORT TERM...MET
LONG TERM...BR
AVIATION...JC/BR
MARINE...BR/MET
HYDROLOGY...BR/MET
