073 
FXUS61 KOKX 210812
AFDOKX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service New York NY
312 AM EST Tue Jan 21 2025

.SYNOPSIS...
High pressure will gradually build in from the west through 
midweek. The high will move over the local region Wednesday 
night and then offshore on Thursday. A low pressure system then 
travels offshore Thursday night into early Friday. High pressure
returns thereafter into Saturday and then moves offshore 
Saturday night into Sunday. Low pressure approaches Sunday night
into next Monday with an accompanying cold front moving across.

&&

.NEAR TERM /THROUGH TONIGHT/...
High pressure over the region will keep conditions mostly dry 
through the near term period. An upper level shortwave will 
pivot across the region late Tuesday into Tuesday night. This 
will bring some cloud cover to the region. Expect a mostly 
cloudy afternoon/evening. As the shortwave exits the region, a 
few light snow showers or flurries may be possible across far 
eastern portion of the CWA. POPs will be limited to 20 percent. 
Sky conditions will gradually clear from west to east, 
especially towards midnight. This should set up another night of
decent radiational cooling. Winds will remain rather light, 
especially north and west of NYC, where the coldest temperatures
of the night are expected. With respect to temperatures, expect
highs today to climb into the teens and lower 20s. Tonight lows
will fall into the single digits and teens. A few of the 
normally colder spots may see temperatures fall below 0. 

Just like Monday night, In terms of zone averages, wind chill values 
are expected to remain short of cold weather advisory criteria, 
which is -10 degrees F or lower for all but LI and the metro NYC, 
where it is -5 degrees F or lower. Would not be surprised if one or 
two isolated locations reach criteria, but at this time, we are not 
expecting these conditions to warrant any headlines. 

&&

.SHORT TERM /WEDNESDAY THROUGH THURSDAY NIGHT/...
High pressure will primarily dominate through the short term with 
mostly dry and cold conditions. The arctic airmass will remain over 
the region Wednesday highs only in the teens and lower 20s. However, 
temperatures will start to moderate a bit on Thursday, as a more W-
SW flow develops. Highs on Thursday will be range from the middle 
20s to lower 30s, with a few locations across Long Island possibly 
getting back above freezing. Overnight lows both nights fall into 
the single digits and teens, except NYC may see lows in the lower 
20s Thursday night. 

An area of low pressure passes offshore Thursday night. This is 
expected to remain far enough offshore but some forecast models show 
a closer approach, bringing a slight chance of snow along the 
southeast coastal sections of the local region Thursday afternoon 
into Thursday night. Once again, will limit POPs to slight chance to 
account for this. 

&&

.LONG TERM /FRIDAY THROUGH MONDAY/...
Main jet stream will remain south of the region and mid level 
trough will remain over the Northeast Friday into Friday night. 
The pattern shifts thereafter to more zonal aloft going into the
weekend. An upper level shortwave trough approaches next 
Monday.

At the surface, low pressure approaches from the west next Monday 
along with an accompanying cold front. There are differences between 
forecast models in regards to timing and placement of the low 
pressure and front. This will allow for a another slight chance of 
snow as wet bulb cooling and thicknesses show more in the way of 
snow. However, forecast models do not have much moisture associated 
with the front, with some models keeping the area dry. 

Moderating temperatures for Friday into the weekend, though they 
will still be well below normal through the first half of the 
weekend. Temperatures climb above freezing by Sunday for much, if 
not all of the forecast area. Temperatures slowly cool for the 
beginning of next week, but only to slightly below normal
levels.

&&

.AVIATION /08Z TUESDAY THROUGH SATURDAY/...
VFR as high pressure builds from the west. 

Winds will remain W to NW through the forecast period at 10 kt 
or less. 

 ...NY Metro (KEWR/KLGA/KJFK/KTEB) TAF Uncertainty...

No unscheduled AMD expected. An isolated gusts of 15 to 20 kt 
is possible during the day Tuesday.

.OUTLOOK FOR 00Z WEDNESDAY THROUGH FRIDAY...

Tuesday night through Friday: VFR. 

Saturday: VFR. W winds 10-15G20kt NYC metro/coastal terminals. 

Detailed information, including hourly TAF wind component 
forecasts, can be found at: https:/www.weather.gov/zny/n90

&&

.MARINE...
Small Craft Advisories will continue for a few more hours as winds 
and seas remain close to criteria. Otherwise, with high pressure 
building into the region, expected sub-SCA conditions for much of 
the week. SCA conditions may return this weekend, generally 
from late Saturday night into Sunday and mainly for the ocean 
waters.

&&

.HYDROLOGY...
No hydrologic issues anticipated.

&&

.OKX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CT...None.
NY...None.
NJ...None.
MARINE...Small Craft Advisory until 7 AM EST this morning for ANZ350-
     353-355.

&&

$$

SYNOPSIS...BC/JP
NEAR TERM...BC
SHORT TERM...BC
LONG TERM...JP
AVIATION...JP
MARINE...BC/JP
HYDROLOGY...BC/JP
