570 
FXUS61 KOKX 111821
AFDOKX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service New York NY
121 PM EST Tue Feb 11 2025

.SYNOPSIS...
High pressure passes offshore this afternoon. Low pressure will
pass well south of the area tonight. Another low pressure 
system moves through the area Wednesday night into Thursday, 
followed by high pressure Friday into Saturday morning. A third 
low then affects the region Saturday afternoon through Sunday 
with high pressure building back in on Monday.

&&

.NEAR TERM /THROUGH TONIGHT/...
Winter Weather Advisory now in effect for Nassau and Suffolk
Counties 9pm this evening through 7am Wednesday morning.

Low pressure beginning to develop over the southeast this 
afternoon and will push ENE off the southern Middle Atlantic
this evening into tonight. The region will continue to lie on
the northern periphery of the precip shield. The latest model 
trends all support a bump up in liquid equivalent with around a 
few hundredths well inland, around a tenth southern portions of
the Lower Hudson Valley and coastal CT, 0.15-0.20" in the NYC 
metro, and around 0.25" across Long Island. The NAM still 
appears to be the wettest of the guidance across the area, 
especially across the southern half with as much as 0.3" in NYC 
and 0.4" across eastern Long Island. Much of the 12z CAMs have 
come into better agreement and have been noting slow trends in 
the HRRR to slowly increase precip amounts across the area. The 
HRRR in past lighter events on the northern periphery has run a 
bit too low, so this has been factored into the latest forecast.

There are several key ingredients that support the trend upward
including a stronger 700mb frontogenesis signal combining with
strong upper divergence from a 170-190 kt departing polar jet
streak to our north. Models do tend to struggle with the
combination of these features and have seen several past events
over perform with lift accompanying a strong upper jet. The
other factor is the majority of the model suite is indicating
enhancement of the precip shield from Southern NJ up into the
area tonight as the coastal low emerges off the coast. Thermal
profiles are also supporting an all snow event. Soundings also
indicate deep ice saturation within the dendritic growth zone
for several hours tonight, especially across Long Island and
portions of the NYC metro. The strongest lift appears to occur
between 10pm and 2am with a decrease the rest of the night.

The snow will begin to overspread from the south tonight between
7-9pm, becoming steady and continuing through the early morning
hours. There is a period between about 10pm and 2am where
snowfall rates could run between 0.25-0.50" per hour. There is
even a low probability snowfall rates could briefly approach 1"
per hour across Long Island from around 11pm-1am as the
strongest forcing and deepest moisture combine. Snowfall rates
will drop off from west to east from 3am to 5am. Some flurries
may linger towards day break, but accumulating snow should end
before sunrise. 

Snow to liquid ratios look higher with this event given we are
on the northern periphery of the low and soundings show more of
an ice saturation signal over one with deeper supercooled water
saturation signal. For these reasons have gone closer to a
12-13:1 ratio. 

Updated snow totals in the are around 3 inches with potential of
a few spots approaching 4 inches. Elsewhere across the NYC metro
and much of NE NJ and coastal CT, generally 1-2 inches are
forecast. Locations closer to the south shore in Staten Island 
and southern Brooklyn and southern Queens could see up to 3
inches. Amounts across the interior will be lower and generally
less than an inch. 

Have also issued a Special Weather Statement for areas outside 
the advisory where 1-2 inches is expected to account for 
potential of slick conditions tonight. 

Lows generally in the upper 20s along the coast and lower to 
mid 20s interior.

&&

.SHORT TERM /WEDNESDAY THROUGH THURSDAY/...
Confluent zonal upper flow become more amplified Wednesday into 
Wednesday Night ahead of longitudinally deepening troughing across 
the SW US shifting into the Central US, and then lifting NE through 
Mid-Mississippi River Valley and Great Lakes on Thursday.

At the surface, models in good agreement with high pressure nosing 
down from SE Canada and New England on Wednesday in wake of 
departing low pressure, to be quickly followed by developing 
southern low pressure tracking NE from the lower Mississippi River 
Valley on Wed, up through the Ohio Valley into eastern Great 
Lakes Wed night. Meanwhile, secondary low pressure develops 
along the Mid Atlantic coast along associated warm front Wed 
Night and lifts towards the region Thu AM. 

Cloudy conditions Wednesday, with the am likely drying out as 
high pressure noses in from the north. Otherwise, seasonably 
cold with highs in the 30s. 

Deep layered lift of moist Gulf flow (+2 std PWAT) increases into
the region late Wed eve/Wed Night, over initially cold airmass 
in place, will allow for a brief onset of snow for NYC/NJ metro 
and coast Wed eve, before likely changing to rain after midnight
with strengthening onshore flow and boundary layer warming 
ahead of approaching warm front/coastal wave. Snow/sleet 
accumulation likely less than an inch, with no ice accum 
expected, before transition to rain. 

To the north and west of the I-95 corridor, after a quick 1-2" 
hit of snow on the front end (highest across higher elevation 
and farther interior of the coast), a growing 700 to 900 mb warm
nose after midnight will result in a transition to mixed precip
and then rain. NBM probs for greater than 2" of snow are less 
than 20 % at this point. Weak onshore flow or possible backed 
low-level flow (CAD), particularly for areas north of I-80, 
I-287, I-684,and I-84, will likely allow for a period of 
freezing rain late Wed Night into into Thu AM before transition 
to plain rain through early to mid morning as warm nose becomes
substantial. Ice accumulation of a few hundredths to less than 
a tenth of an inch possible across these areas. Advisories could
eventually be needed for these areas, with combined snow and 
ice presenting slippery/hazardous conditions for the Thu AM 
commute. 

Rain gradually taper off from w to e Thu AM, in wake of coastal low 
and occluded front. Highs in the mid 40s coast and lower 40s 
interior, with caa lagging until after cold frontal passage Thu
Night. No icing issues anticipated for Thu aft/eve commute.

&&

.LONG TERM /THURSDAY NIGHT THROUGH MONDAY/...
Low pressure departs Thursday night as high pressure builds in from 
the west. Expect a dry and breezy conditions into Friday morning as 
the gradient between these two systems remain rather tight. As the 
ridge axis builds over the area later Friday winds gradually 
lighten. Highs on Friday will be below normal with temperatures in 
the lower and middle 30s. 

A stronger and wetter system is then anticipated to approach from 
the SW on Saturday before passing through or nearby to our NW during 
the day Sunday. Precip becomes likely Saturday afternoon into 
evening and probably ends Sunday evening and overnight. Kept precip 
types simplified for the time being with rain, snow or a mix of the 
two. Too early to have much confidence in potential snow 
accumulations, but with that said, rain appears to be the dominant 
precip type with this storm.

High pressure builds back into the region to start the new work
week.

&&

.AVIATION /18Z TUESDAY THROUGH SUNDAY/...
Low pressure passes south of the terminals tonight.

VFR through about 00Z. Cigs and vsbys then lower to MVFR then IFR in 
snow after 00-02Z tonight for the NYC and LI terminals. A period of 
SN is possible between 03-06Z with vsbys reduced to 1/2mi. 
Conditions start to improve after 09-12z, however conditions may 
remain MVFR through midday Wednesday.

SW winds near 10kts this afternoon. Flow weakens and becomes light 
and variable this evening before becoming NE late at night. 

 ...NY Metro (KEWR/KLGA/KJFK/KTEB) TAF Uncertainty... 

Amendments are likely for the timing of flight category changes in 
light snow this evening into the overnight period. Snowfall amounts 
of 1-2 inches expected with locally up to 3 inches. 

.OUTLOOK FOR 18Z WEDNESDAY THROUGH SATURDAY... 

Wednesday: MVFR likely early. VFR possible into the afternoon. ENE 
gusts 15-20 kt at the coastal terminals in the afternoon.

Wednesday Night-Thursday: Snow/wintry mix developing Wednesday 
evening with IFR/LIFR. At the coast, wintry mix for a brief period 
before becoming plain rain. Further north, Wintry mix becoming plain 
rain Thursday morning. E gusts 15-20 kt Wednesday night.

Friday: VFR. NW wind gusts 15-20 kt during the day.

Saturday: VFR early. MVFR or lower possible with rain/snow mix near 
coast and snow inland late. Becoming all rain at the coast by early 
evening, and a bit later at the inland terminals.

Sunday: MVFR for much of the day in rain; winds SW 5-10kts.

Detailed information, including hourly TAF wind component forecasts, 
can be found at: https:/www.weather.gov/zny/n90

&&

.MARINE...
Sub-Small Craft Advisory conditions are expected on all waters 
through tonight.

E/NE winds increase on Wednesday with marginal SCA gusts and seas 
likely by Wed afternoon. High confidence in SCA winds/seas on the 
ocean waters Wed Night with strengthening e flow ahead of
approaching low pressure system, and likely SCA gusts on 
nearshore waters. Winds likely fall below SCA and shift SW 
across all waters Thu AM with low pressure passage and occlude 
frontal passage, but ocean seas should remain at SCA in E/SE 
swell. 

The pressure gradient tightens enough Thursday night into Friday 
morning in wake of cold frontal passage for all waters to have 
advisory-level gusts during the period. Winds and seas subside 
throughout the day Friday with sub- advisory conditions even on 
the ocean waters by early evening. Southerly winds increase for 
Saturday, but conditions look to be short of advisory 
thresholds. A better chance of SCA conditions arrives Saturday 
night into Sunday.

&&

.HYDROLOGY...
There are no hydrologic concerns through early next week.

&&

.TIDES/COASTAL FLOODING...
With full moon on Wednesday and SCA easterly flow Wed Night 
into Thu AM ahead of approaching frontal system, there is 
potential for scattered areas of minor coastal flooding with Thu
morning high tide for vulnerable areas along Jamaica Bay, 
western Great South Bay and western LI Sound, and more isolated 
along NY/NJ harbor and its tidal estuaries. 

Some beach flooding and escarpment possible during the Thu AM 
high tide with elevated water levels and e to w sweep of 4 to 6
ft breaking surf, but dune erosion threat appears limited at 
this point.

&&

.OKX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CT...None.
NY...Winter Weather Advisory from 9 PM this evening to 7 AM EST 
     Wednesday for NYZ078>081-177-179.
NJ...None.
MARINE...Small Craft Advisory from 1 PM Wednesday to 7 PM EST Thursday 
     for ANZ350-353-355.

&&

$$

SYNOPSIS...BC/NV
NEAR TERM...DS
SHORT TERM...NV
LONG TERM...BC
AVIATION...DBR
MARINE...BC/NV
HYDROLOGY...BC/NV
TIDES/COASTAL FLOODING...
