816 
FXUS61 KOKX 201656
AFDOKX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service New York NY
1156 AM EST Mon Jan 20 2025

.SYNOPSIS...
Deepening low pressure lifts north across the Canadian Maritimes
today, allowing high pressure to build in from the west through
the middle of the week. The high remains over the region Thursday
and into the weekend as a frontal system passes offshore Thursday
and Thursday night. The high weakens Sunday as a cold front 
approaches from the northwest.

&&

.NEAR TERM /THROUGH TONIGHT/...
With low pressure deepening over the Canadian Maritimes this
afternoon and high pressure building in from the west, expect 
occasional WNW wind gusts up t 25 mph this afternoon. There is 
also a chance for some sct-bkn cu to develop around 4k ft as 
well. Highs are forecast to top out in the lower to mid 20s this
afternoon. This is 10 to 15 degrees below normal. 

Time heights indicate clearing skies tngt, then an increase in
high clouds possible by sunrise Tue. With some fresh snow cover
shaved a degree off the NBM low temps. Winds progged to lessen
with only about 20kt at h85, so that will be the wind chill
limiting factor. The current fcst does not reach cold wx advy
criteria, so nothing issued attm. It will still be cold with min
apparent temps in the single digits blw zero.

&&

.SHORT TERM /TUESDAY THROUGH WEDNESDAY NIGHT/...
Continued cold thru Wed ngt. Apparent temps thru the period 
still not quite at advy criteria. Some of the coldest spots Tue 
ngt get to around zero or slightly blw. To do this though the 
winds need to go nearly calm, so little difference between wind 
chill and actual temps. The NBM was followed, with a few local 
adjustments, thru the period. Temps stay blw freezing the entire
time. 

H5 trof comes thru Tue ngt and is modeled to be dry. The passage
of the trof appears to keep low pres offshore from impacting the
area attm. The NBM has captured the swd trend and pops have 
been reduced across the cwa accordingly. Highest pops for this 
event are across LI and only in the 20 percent range. Unless the
upr trof slows down or acquires more of a neg tilt, pops should
continue to trend towards zero.

&&

.LONG TERM /THURSDAY THROUGH SUNDAY/...
A cold airmass remains in place for Thursday, although temperatures 
will be moderating, into Saturday as high pressure generally 
dominates. A frontal system will be passing south and east of the 
area Thursday into Thursday night. The track is a little farther to 
the west, however, will maintain slight chance probabilities for 
light snow. Temperatures from Thursday through Saturday remain well 
below normal. With the high weakening and drifting south Saturday 
into Sunday temperatures will moderate further, and be close to 
normal levels. A trough and cold front will be approaching from the 
northwest Saturday into Sunday, and with little moisture a few snow 
showers will be possible. A more zonal flow for the weekend will 
allow another trough to amplify into the northeast with surface low 
pressure developing, and there will be chances for snow for the 
beginning of next week.

&&

.AVIATION /18Z MONDAY THROUGH SATURDAY/...
High pressure builds in from the west through tonight.

VFR.

A gusty NW to W flow continues into early this evening, with
gusts to around 25kt, with occasional higher gusts. Gusts end
soon after sunset outside the NYC metro area, and by 01Z at the
NYC metro terminals. A W flow around 10kt, or less, continues
tonight into Tuesday morning.


 ...NY Metro (KEWR/KLGA/KJFK/KTEB) TAF Uncertainty...

No unscheduled amendments expected.

.OUTLOOK FOR 12Z TUESDAY THROUGH FRIDAY...

Tuesday: VFR. A slight chance of light snow or flurries along
coastal Long Island with MVFR possible this evening. 

Wednesday: VFR.

Thursday: VFR. MVFR possible with a slight chance of light snow
east of the NYC terminals Thursday night.

Friday: VFR.

Detailed information, including hourly TAF wind component forecasts, 
can be found at: https:/www.weather.gov/zny/n90

&&

.MARINE...
Gusty NW flow backs to the WNW this aftn. A SCA remains in
effect for all waters with some lgt freezing spray possible.
Winds mrgnl tngt on the protected waters, so the advy was not
extended there and only remains on the ocean. Winds diminish
further on Tue, and all waters might stay blw sca lvls. Some
freezing spray still possible. Better confidence that winds and
seas are blw sca lvls on Wed.

Winds and seas will remain below SCA levels across the forecast 
waters Thursday through Friday. A strengthening northwest flow Friday 
night as low pressure passes offshore may allow for wind gusts and 
seas to be near SCA levels east of Moriches Inlet and across the 
Long Island eastern bays Friday night into Saturday.

&&

.HYDROLOGY...
No hydrologic issues are anticipated through Sunday.

&&

.OKX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CT...None.
NY...None.
NJ...None.
MARINE...Small Craft Advisory until 6 PM EST this evening for ANZ331-
     332-335-338-340-345.
     Small Craft Advisory until 7 AM EST Tuesday for ANZ350-353-355.

&&

$$

SYNOPSIS...JMC/MET
NEAR TERM...JMC/DW
SHORT TERM...JMC
LONG TERM...MET
AVIATION...MET
MARINE...JMC/MET
HYDROLOGY...JMC/MET
