622 
FXUS61 KOKX 151431
AFDOKX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service New York NY
1031 AM EDT Thu May 15 2025

.SYNOPSIS...
Low pressure continues to weaken as it approaches today. An 
associated frontal boundary looks to stay just south of the area 
through the day and may push through late. Another frontal system 
impacts the area Friday through Saturday. High pressure will 
gradually return early next week as low pressure lingers just east 
of New England. A frontal system may approach during the middle of 
next week.

&&

.NEAR TERM /THROUGH TONIGHT/...
Minor adjustments made to POPs for showers. Thunderstorms in
forecast remain slight chance POPs/isolated coverage. Fog still
across the area, patchy with larger areas across the waters.
Still some localized dense fog. Expecting the fog to diminish 
into early this afternoon. Forecast highs were lowered by a 
degree.

The previous upper level low that lingered over the Gulf states for 
several days has now opened up into a trough, with the axis just 
west of the area currently. At the surface, a weakening low is 
centered over the Mid-Atlantic coast, with a frontal boundary 
extending to just south of our area. Convective activity is now 
limited to eastern CT and eastern LI, likely with the help of a 500-
1000 J/kg MUCAPE axis and nose of a weakening LLJ. This activity 
will continue to weaken and shift east gradually. See Hydrology 
section below.

The upper level trough moves through today. The boundary at the
surface stays to our south, but may push through late in the 
day. The area destabilizes today, with latest CAMs showing about
500-1000 J/kg of MLCAPE. This is due to an increase in moisture
and temperature at the surface today. With very weak lift 
available, some pop isolated to scattered pop up convection is 
possible. The chances for any thunder are greater across the 
interior, as any capping will be greater towards the coast. Very
slow storm motion could result in some localized longer lasting
downpours, but with weak shear no organized convection is 
expected. This activity diminishes after sunset. 

The pressure gradient really slackens by this evening and 
expecting calm to light winds across the whole area. Fog likely 
returns given this and the onshore component of the past few 
days.

For highs today, went a bit cooler than NBM, mainly across LI 
and coastal CT where clouds and an onshore flow should keep 
temps down in the upper 60s for the most part. Stuck with NBM 
for lows. The pressure gradient really slackens by this evening 
and expecting calm winds across the whole area. Fog likely 
returns.

&&

.SHORT TERM /FRIDAY THROUGH SATURDAY NIGHT/...
Unsettled weather continues through the short term period. 
Brief zonal flow aloft follows the departing trough, but another
upper level low approaches. The associated surface low will 
impact the area through Saturday night. There is quite a bit of 
uncertainty as far as PoPs and thunder during this period. The 
most uncertainty is with Friday morning and afternoon as 
guidance continues to show a decaying line of showers and 
thunderstorms approaching tonight into Friday morning. If this 
activity does make it, the best chances will be for northeast NJ
and the Lower Hudson Valley. There may be additional chances 
for showers and thunderstorms in the afternoon, but confidence 
in this is decreasing as lift looks weak.

The upper level low gets closer on Saturday and moves overhead 
Saturday night. A cold front also moves through Saturday night. 
While conditions may become more conducive to showers and 
thunderstorms on Saturday there is still uncertainty and the 
mesoscale setup will become better resolved over the next few days, 
which should help give more confidence on the evolution of potential 
convection. If the current timing holds, any showers/thunderstorms 
will likely be out of the area or dissipate by around midnight.

Warmer temps are expected on Friday and Saturday, highs in the
70s and potentially lower 80s for northeast NJ on Saturday.

&&

.LONG TERM /SUNDAY THROUGH WEDNESDAY/...
Key Points:

* Temperatures will mainly run above normal through the weekend
  before trending closer to normal early next week. 

A blocky synoptic pattern will continue through the middle of
next week.  

The system that impacts the area Friday and Saturday will push 
east of the area on Sunday and then remain near or just off the 
New England coast early next week. Lingering cyclonic flow aloft
Sunday may be enough to produce a diurnally driven isolated 
shower well inland in the afternoon. Upper ridging will build 
just to our west early next week with another trough amplifying 
over the western states. The proximity of the ridging and upper 
low just offshore should keep conditions dry Monday into 
Tuesday. The NBM indicates an increase in precip probabilities 
on Wednesday which may be overdone given the nearby ridging 
which may take some time to break down. Will indicate a low 
probability for now with potential of another frontal system 
attempting to approach mid next week.

&&

.AVIATION /15Z THURSDAY THROUGH MONDAY/...
Low pressure weakens and passes south today.

Low cigs and vsby will be the main story through the TAF 
period. LIFR cond are likely this morning along the coast, and
into the early afternoon along the Connecticut coast and north.

Improvement to MVFR late afternoon from KLGA and points N and 
W, with the highest probability of MVFR conditions for KSWF 
(there is a moderate chance for brief VFR here). However there 
is a good deal of uncertainty in the forecast for these areas, 
with IFR to MVFR conditions possible this afternoon. Coastal 
terminals are likely to remain IFR this afternoon. Conditions 
are expected to deteriorate once again tonight to IFR or lower 
for all terminals. 

E to ESE winds at less than 10 kt through the TAF period become
light and variable overnight tonight.

With low pressure nearby, there is a low chance for showers
mid morning through the afternoon. A passing thunderstorm is
also possible.

 ...NY Metro (KEWR/KLGA/KJFK/KTEB) TAF Uncertainty...

Amendments expected for changing flight categories throughout
the TAF period.  

.OUTLOOK FOR 12Z FRIDAY THROUGH MONDAY...

Friday: IFR/LIFR early in the morning, then MVFR mid-morning
onward with slight chance of tstms.

Saturday: MVFR cond expected, IFR possible, with showers likely
and chance of tstms. 

Sunday...Mainly VFR. 

Monday...VFR.

Detailed information, including hourly TAF wind component
forecasts, can be found at: https:/www.weather.gov/zny/n90

&&

.MARINE...
A Dense Fog Advisory remains in effect for all waters. Dense 
fog will likely lower visibilities to less than 1 NM through the
much of the morning. Ocean and South Shore Bays marine zones
have dense fog until 12PM, with other OKX marine zones having
dense fog until 11AM.

The Small Craft Advisory has been adjusted to have the ocean waters 
from Sandy Hook to Fire Island Inlet end at 4 PM as seas will 
likely decrease there sooner than previously forecast. The SCA 
for the rest of the ocean waters expires at 6 PM.

Conditions then remain below SCA levels through next Monday with a 
relatively weak pressure gradient over the waters.

&&

.HYDROLOGY...
Additional heavy downpours expected with any thunderstorms that
develop today. Localized minor flooding possible with not much 
steering flow. This activity is not expected to reach flash 
flooding levels and should diminish as we head towards sunrise. 
Shower and thunderstorm coverage will likely increase this 
afternoon and heavier downpours are possible again. At this 
time, flash flooding is not expected with that activity either.

There are currently no hydrologic concerns Friday through early
next week.

&&

.OKX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CT...None.
NY...None.
NJ...None.
MARINE...Dense Fog Advisory until 11 AM EDT this morning for ANZ331-332-
     335-338-340.
     Dense Fog Advisory until noon EDT today for ANZ345-350-353-355.
     Small Craft Advisory until 6 PM EDT this evening for ANZ350-
     353.
     Small Craft Advisory until 4 PM EDT this afternoon for ANZ355.

&&

$$

SYNOPSIS...DS/JT
NEAR TERM...JM/JT
SHORT TERM...JT
LONG TERM...DS
AVIATION...JP
MARINE...JM/DS/JT
HYDROLOGY...DS/JT
