560 
FXUS61 KOKX 100534
AFDOKX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service New York NY
134 AM EDT Thu Apr 10 2025

.SYNOPSIS...
High pressure along the coast through Thursday will slowly give
way to weakening low pressure over the Ohio Valley and a warm 
front to the south. Low pressure over the Mid Atlantic states on
Friday will then slowly lift north and east through Saturday,
passing to the east on Sunday. High pressure will briefly build
across on Monday before a frontal system moves through from late
Monday night into Tuesday. High pressure will again build in
from the southwest for the middle of next week.

&&

.NEAR TERM /UNTIL 6 AM THIS MORNING/...
For this update updated temps and sky based on latest obs and
trends over past few hours. Otherwise forecast essentially on
track, previous discussion follows.

Sfc high pressure will remain just off the coast overnight. Winds
becoming light/vrb inland and slightly lighter along the coast,
with some coastal spots perhaps going light/vrb after 07-08z. 
In the zonal flow aloft mid level clouds should make it into the
area from W PA and OH especially from NYC north/west. Temps 
should be warmer than those of last night in most places, mainly
mid 30s to around 40, except inland and across the Long Island 
Pine Barrens where radiational cooling will allow temps to fall
at most into the middle 20s to lower 30s once again. If it
doesn't get this low then it will be because of mid level clouds
coming in a bit quicker.

&&

.SHORT TERM /6 AM THIS MORNING THROUGH 6 PM FRIDAY/...
An upper trough crossing the Great Lakes should slowly amplify
during this time. WAA between this system and the offshore high
should allow for further increase in clouds, perhaps some 
afternoon sprinkles from NYC north/west with the best chances 
well inland. Temps while warmer than recent days will still be 
below normal, with highs mostly in the lower 50s, and upper 40s
along the immediate south shores of Long Island and SE CT. 

GFS quicker than the NAM to bring rain in Thu afternoon/night
and wetter overall. Have split the difference between the two
but even this looked too aggressive with the high to the east
slow to budge, so tempered with slightly lower NBM PoP. This
give chance PoP for all areas during Thu evening, then likely 
from NYC west late Thu night. Sfc temps should cool off to 
35-40 but with warming temps aloft expect p-type to be all rain.

&&

.LONG TERM /FRIDAY NIGHT THROUGH WEDNESDAY/...
Global models are all in good agreement with closing off an 
upper low over the Mid Atlantic states on Friday, then lifting 
it slowly north and east through the weekend. However, there are
some differences with the positioning of the surface low, with 
the 12Z GFS tucked closer to the upper low, tracking it closer 
to the coast. The GEFS mean and most of its members are farther 
east, supporting the operational consenus. This difference is 
also reflected in the positioning of the warm conveyor belt 
rains coming in off the Atlantic. The GFS is farther to the 
west, in line upper jet dynamics and upper difluence, focusing 
some heavy rainfall across NE NJ, NYC, the Lower Hudson Valley 
and SW CT Friday night. The operational runs of the ECMWF and 
Canadian are father west with this axis and also focus the 
heaviest overrunning rains farther to the east across eastern LI
and SE CT, even moreso over SE New England. Bottom line, there 
is some uncertainty with the axes of heaviest rain late Friday 
into Saturday. A consensus forecast, using the NBM, gives much 
of the area 1.00 to 1.50 inches through Saturday. However, did 
cut down the higher amounts (2 inches) of the NBM across western
areas due to the uncertainty and location of the western axis. 
WPC has the entire forecast area in a Marginal Risk of Excessive
Rainfall. Current thinking is flooding will mainly be of the 
minor nuisance variety. Any thunderstorms look to be isolated 
and across eastern LI and SE CT where there is marginal 
instability. Rain diminishes in intensity Saturday afternoon and
night to light rain and/or drizzle, which may continue into 
Sunday, especially for the eastern half of the forecast area. In
addition, a gusty easterly flow up to 25 mph is expected across
coastal locations Friday into Saturday.

A weak high pressure ridge will then move across the area 
Monday, followed by a frontal system impacting the area late 
Monday night into Tuesday with a low chance of showers. Low 
pressure departs to the north across eastern Canada on 
Wednesday, with high pressure building in from the southwest.

For temperatures, daytime highs will be in the upper 40s to 
lower 50s Friday and Saturday, which is on the cool side. Lows 
though will be closer to normal due to the cloud cover, in the 
upper 30s inland and the lower to mid 40s along the coast. Expect
a warmup into Tuesday ahead of the cold front with highs 
getting into the 60s and possibly around 70 for the NJ/NYC metro
north into the Lower Hudson Valley. This is about 5 to 10 degrees
above normal.

&&

.AVIATION /06Z THURSDAY THROUGH MONDAY/...
High pressure settles nearby just to the south overnight and slowly 
pushes offshore into Thursday.

VFR expected through Thursday. MVFR and eventually IFR moves in
Thursday evening after 00Z, but especially toward 6Z Friday.
Mostly dry conditions expected through 22Z. SHRA then expected
to develop but coverage at this time remains uncertain. SHRA
expected to become more widespread after 6Z Friday with
conditions lowering to IFR.

Light and variable or a light SW flow tonight. Winds then pick
up to near 10kt out of the S/SE during the day. Winds slowly
back to the E after 00Z Friday.
 
     NY Metro (KEWR/KLGA/KJFK/KTEB) TAF Uncertainty... 

No amendments are expected through 22z Thursday. Amendments are 
possible Thursday evening into Friday morning with timing or
SHRA and changing flight categories.

.OUTLOOK FOR 06Z FRIDAY THROUGH MONDAY...

Thursday night: MVFR/IFR with -SHRA. SE winds about 10-15kt.

Friday: MVFR with periods of IFR. Rain. E flow 10-20kt.

Saturday: MVFR or lower. Chance of light rain. NE winds 15-20 kt 
possible.

Sunday: MVFR possible with winds becoming NW.

Monday: VFR.

Detailed information, including hourly TAF wind component forecasts, 
can be found at: https:/www.weather.gov/zny/n90

&&

.MARINE...
Sub SCA cond expected on all waters through Thu night, with 
winds becoming S-SW tonight (with some gusts close to 20 kt on 
the western ocean waters) this evening, backing SE Thu 
afternoon/evening, then E (with some gusts to 20 kt on the 
ocean) late Thu night as high pressure over the waters slowly 
retreats.

A strengthening easterly flow will bring SCA conditions to the
ocean waters Friday into Saturday with gusts up to 30 kt and
seas building to 6 to 9 ft on the ocean on Saturday. Conditions
look more marginal for the non-ocean waters. SCA seas will 
likely linger Saturday night into Sunday on the ocean with a 
gradually weakening NE flow.

&&

.HYDROLOGY...
Rainfall from Friday evening through Saturday afternoon will 
average from 1 to 1 1/2 inches. These amounts should limit any 
flooding to the minor nuisance variety. However, there is a fair
amount of uncertainty with the location of the higher rainfall 
axes during this event. These details should be better resolved 
as we draw closer to the event.

&&

.OKX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CT...None.
NY...None.
NJ...None.
MARINE...None.

&&

$$

SYNOPSIS...BG/DW
NEAR TERM...JE/BG
SHORT TERM...BG
LONG TERM...DW
AVIATION...MW
MARINE...BG/DW
HYDROLOGY...BG/DW
