181 
FXUS61 KOKX 161427
AFDOKX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service New York NY
927 AM EST Sun Feb 16 2025

.SYNOPSIS...
Deepening low pressure will track across the area today and 
then up into the Canadian Maritimes tonight. The low will be
nearly stationary on Monday before lifting out to the northeast
Monday night. Strong high pressure dives south into the middle 
of the country Tuesday into Wednesday and gradually noses into 
the region. Low pressure then emerges out of the Gulf states and
emerges off the Southeastern US coast. This low strengthens as 
it lifts northeast and tracks just offshore into Thursday. The 
low pulls away Thursday night with high pressure building into 
next weekend.

&&

.NEAR TERM /THROUGH TONIGHT/...
Updated to increase freezing rain amounts across interior
southern Connecticut, and also for temperatures which remain 
below freezing across the interior where ice continues to 
accumulate. 

A warm front poised south of LI, through southern New Jersey, 
this morning will be slow to lift north, and is expected to 
briefly lift across coastal locations later this afternoon. 
Initially, enough cold air remains trapped across far interior 
sections of the Lower Hudson Valley and interior southern CT 
with light E/NE winds to the north of the boundary. Latest hires
guidance continues to show pockets of sub-freezing air dammed 
in until late morning. There have been reports of up four tenths
of an inch of ice with minor additional icing expected through 
16Z, as precipitation become more scattered or ends before the 
next surge warm advection.

Deepening low pressure over the Ohio Valley this morning will 
pass north and west of the area with a secondary low forming 
nearby this afternoon. This low will undergo rapid intensification
as it heads up into the Canadian Maritimes tonight. Ahead of 
the low and trailing cold front, will be a strengthening LLJ, 
with a 75-85 kt core at 925 mb passing near or over far eastern 
LI this afternoon. Strong thermal forcing will provide additional
rounds of rain, possibly embedded with thunderstorms. The best 
chance will from NYC and points east late this morning and into 
this afternoon with warm conveyor belt rains surging in from the
south. Expect the warm front to enhance the lift along the 
coast with moderate to heavy showers and then again areawide 
with a pre-frontal trough this afternoon ahead of the cold 
front. The area will initially be capped by a strong low-level 
inversion, however, as the warm front pushes through eastern 
sections, it will weaken and allow for the potential for wind 
advisory level winds (gusts up to 50 mph) to briefly impact 
coastal locations. 

By the time the cold front passes this evening, much of the 
area is forecast to have received 1.5 to 2 inches of liquid 
equivalent, with the highest amounts across LI and CT. Behind 
the cold front this evening, strong west winds will develop with
the potential for 40-50 kt gusts associated with strong pressure
rises immediately behind it. Winds at the top of mixed layer 
for the remainder of the night will be around 50 kt, and on 
average about 40 kt through the layer. However, have cancelled 
the High Wind Watch and replaced with a Wind Advisory. NBM and 
HREF probabilities for winds of 50kt show only low chances. It 
would also be unlikely to consistently mix down from the top of
the mixed layer with the possible exception of some of the 
higher elevations north and west of NYC.

Much colder air returns tonight with temperatures dropping back
below freezing and into the 20s by daybreak Monday.

&&

.SHORT TERM /MONDAY/...
Strong low pressure will remain over the Canadian maritimes 
Monday with Wind Advisory level winds to continue with gusts 
40-50 mph. Temperatures will be running about 7 to 10 degrees 
below normal for Mid Feb for Monday.

&&

.LONG TERM /MONDAY NIGHT THROUGH SATURDAY/...
* Quite cold Monday night through Wednesday with well below normal 
  temperatures.

* The potential remains for a significant winter storm towards mid 
  week (Wed night into Thursday), although the latest trend is 
  further east.

Windy conditions continue as a strong pressure gradient remains over 
the area due the departing low that will spin over the Canadian 
Maritimes Monday night and strong arctic high pressure 
(1050-1054 mb) that builds in from southern Canada. W winds of 
15 to 25 mph are forecast, with gusts around 35 mph in the 
evening. Winds diminish through the night as the pressure 
gradient relaxes a bit into Tuesday morning.

The high continues to nose in from the north and west Tuesday and 
Wednesday, keeping the region dry. As the modified arctic air moves 
south, a baroclinic zone sets up over the southern states, allowing 
low pressure to begin to take shape. This low then treks east along 
the gulf states, crosses the Fl panhandle, then gets along and off 
the Southeast US coast Wednesday night. The low then tracks 
northeast into Thursday, pulling away from the area Thursday night.

The 0z 16 Feb runs shows the guidance that was previously more 
bullish on a significant Mid Atlantic and Southern New England 
snowstorm (ECMWF, UKMET, CMC) had adjusted east some. The 0z ECMWF 
ensembles are showing a trend in its past 3 or 4 runs of being a bit 
further east. The differences overall appear to be more with the sfc 
progs and not as much at 500 mb. The difficulty in this particular 
situation appears to rest with how the northern branch closed low 
interacts with any suppressed Pacific energy. Will the Pacific 
energy get too far out ahead of the northern branch system where
the interaction will be less and the northern branch closed low
will then have less lower and mid level moisture to work with? 
This is the million dollar question. Have adjusted the timing 
of the system and now move it along quickly. Thus, have now 
lowered PoPs for Thu night as there is good agreement among the 
various global camps to exit the system faster.

Behind the system expect it to be brisk and cold for Thu night 
into Friday on a NW flow regime. Wind chills will likely be 
primarily in the single digits to around 10 for Friday morning. 
Temperatures will remain below normal into the start of next 
weekend with a cP air mass in place.

&&

.AVIATION /15Z SUNDAY THROUGH THURSDAY/...
Low pressure and a warm front approaches this morning. The low 
will pass west and north today, with the warm front lifting 
through the city and eastern terminals towards mid to late 
afternoon. A strong cold frontal passage will take place early 
in the evening. 

Widespread IFR/LIFR cond in rain at most terminals (except mainly 
freezing rain at KSWF til around noon) should continue, and vsby 
could lower to 1/2SM in rain and fog for a few hours this morning 
and early this afternoon before the warm fropa. 

E to NE winds at mainly 5 to 13 kts depending on the terminal should 
veer more to the E at most sites by afternoon.  LLWS groups in TAFs 
for KJFK, KISP, KBDR, and KGON due to proximity to the low level 
jet. Winds become S-SW and gusty after warm fropa, then shift W with 
cold fropa early this evening and increase to 20-30 kt with gusts 35-
45 kt for a time. 

A rumble of thunder may be possible at the NYC metros, and east 
towards KBDR, KISP, and KGON this afternoon. 

 ...NY Metro (KEWR/KLGA/KJFK/KTEB) TAF Uncertainty...

Amendments may be needed for changing flight categories towards 
afternoon. 

.OUTLOOK FOR 12Z MONDAY THROUGH THURSDAY...

Monday: VFR. W winds G35-40kt, diminishing at night.

Tuesday: VFR. W winds G25 kt. 

Wednesday: VFR. 

Wednesday night: Becoming IFR in snow.

Thursday: MVFR / IFR in snow. N winds G20kt, becoming NW G25kt late 
in the day and at night. 

Detailed information, including hourly TAF wind component forecasts, 
can be found at: https:/www.weather.gov/zny/n90

&&

.MARINE...
Gale warnings are in effect for all the non-ocean waters through
Monday night.

Storm Warning in effect for the ocean waters through Monday 
afternoon.

A storm system will impact the area with a strengthening 
southerly flow today, followed by strong west winds later this 
evening. Expect a period of pre-frontal SW gale/storm-force 
gusts this afternoon, following by a westerly gale/storm-force 
gusts tonight into Monday. Expect gusts 40-50kt with season on 
the ocean building to 11 to 19 ft on the ocean tonight, and 5 to
8 ft on LI Sound. 

With a strong W flow low water benchmarks may be approached in 
a couple of locations for the Monday night and early Tuesday low
tide cycles. Gale conditions prevailing Monday night will give 
way to small craft conditions into early Tuesday morning. Small 
craft conditions will likely persist through the day on Tuesday,
with sub advisory conditions gradually developing from west to 
east Tuesday night into Wednesday morning. Ocean seas get down 
to around 2 ft. by Wednesday afternoon. Small craft conditions 
will likely return Thursday into Thursday night as storm system 
gets off the coast and a NW flow increases.

&&

.HYDROLOGY...
No hydrologic impacts are anticipated from this weekend's storm 
system and through the week.

&&

.OKX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CT...Winter Weather Advisory until 11 AM EST this morning for 
     CTZ005>008.
     Wind Advisory from 6 PM this evening to 6 PM EST Monday for 
     CTZ005>012.
NY...Winter Weather Advisory until 11 AM EST this morning for 
     NYZ067-068.
     Wind Advisory from 6 PM this evening to 6 PM EST Monday for 
     NYZ067>075-078>081-176>179.
NJ...Winter Weather Advisory until 11 AM EST this morning for 
     NJZ002.
     Wind Advisory from 6 PM this evening to 6 PM EST Monday for 
     NJZ002-004-006-103>108.
MARINE...Gale Warning from 4 PM this afternoon to midnight EST Monday 
     night for ANZ331-332-335-338-340-345.
     Storm Warning from 1 PM this afternoon to 1 PM EST Monday for 
     ANZ350-353-355.

&&

$$

SYNOPSIS...JE/DW
NEAR TERM...MET/DW
SHORT TERM...DW
LONG TERM...JE
AVIATION...JE/20
MARINE...JE/DW
HYDROLOGY...JE/DW
