530 
FXUS61 KOKX 070000
AFDOKX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service New York NY
800 PM EDT Sun Apr 6 2025

.SYNOPSIS...
Several waves of low pressure will move along a stalled
frontal boundary to our south tonight through Monday. A 
secondary cold front will move across the area Monday night
into early Tuesday followed by high pressure building in from 
the northwest through Wednesday. The high moves offshore
Wednesday night. A slow moving frontal system will likely
affect the region late Thursday into next weekend

&&

.NEAR TERM /THROUGH MONDAY/...
The initial cold front has settled well to our south and will
stall tonight. Waves of low pressure will move along the 
stalled boundary through Monday. These systems are in 
association with an amplifying northern stream upper trough. 
The region will also lie in the right entrance region of a 
strengthening jet streak across northern New England. 

The first low pressure will approach tonight. Much of the
evening should remain dry as lift is initially weak. 
Overrunning becomes enhanced north of the low as deeper moisture
advects north and interacts with the aforementioned jet to our 
north. Rain will overspread the area from north to south late 
this evening through the overnight. Northerly flow will also 
increase slightly helping bring down some colder air. 

Latest high-res guidance indicating thermal profiles should 
cool just enough across the interior late tonight/early Monday 
morning to support some wet snow and/or sleet to mix in with the
rain. Potential for a period of just wet snow/sleet for areas 
above 500 ft elevation, with a dusting possible on grassy 
surfaces across the highest elevations before daybreak.  
Elsewhere, no accum expected as temps are expected to remain 
just above freezing. 

The precip will likely continue after sunrise, but should begin
tapering off by late morning as the low pressure passes further
offshore. Any snow/sleet after early AM will will not be able 
to accumulate with April solar insolation. Spotty light rain 
remains possible Monday afternoon with overcast conditions 
remain in place.  Rainfall amounts will generally be on the 
light side and average two to four tenths. 

Low temperatures tonight will range from the mid 30s inland to
the upper 30s/low 40s closer to the coast. High temperatures on
Monday will be around 10 degrees below normal for this time of 
year in the middle and upper 40s.

&&

.SHORT TERM /MONDAY NIGHT THROUGH TUESDAY NIGHT/...
The upper trough will begin to progress further east Monday
night. Another wave of low pressure will develop on the stalled
front to our south in the evening. This may allow some 
additional rain to graze eastern Long Island and southeast 
Connecticut the first half of the night. The NAM appears the 
most aggressive compared to the rest of the model consensus, 
which expands the rain shield further inland. Did not go this 
widespread with the rain, but the proximity of the upper jet 
Monday evening could allow some additional light rain to expand 
towards the NYC metro/Hudson River corridor. This activity will 
push east of the area after midnight. 

Another low pressure will traverse across northern NY and New 
England Monday night into early Tuesday. This will send a
secondary cold front across the area. The front quickly pushes 
offshore Tuesday morning as the low pressure slowly deepens near
the Maritimes through Tuesday evening. High pressure will also 
build towards the area from the northwest through Tuesday night.
The secondary front should move through mostly dry, but a few 
pockets of light precip are possible. A few wet snow flakes 
could mix in across the interior. 

Dry and blustery conditions return on Tuesday following the
cold front passage. Some stratocu could linger Tuesday morning,
but clearing skies are expected through the day. WNW-NW flow 
increases through the day as the region lies between the low 
pressure to our NE and high pressure to our NW. The steepening 
pressure gradient and strong cold advection will lead to NW 
winds 15-25 mph gusting 30-40 mph Tuesday morning and afternoon.
Winds should begin to subside Tuesday evening, but will likely 
remain breezy through the night as the gradient does not 
completely relax. Winds with this forecast have been raised from
previous updates, but still fall below advisory levels. 

Despite the breezy conditions continuing Tuesday night, temperatures 
should be able to bottom out well below normal in the upper 20s 
inland and low 30s closer to the coast. The breezy conditions and 
dry dew points will prevent frost formation, but a freeze is 
possible where the growing season has begun as of April 1st (NYC 
metro, Nassau County, Hudson County, eastern Essex and eastern Union 
Counties).

&&

.LONG TERM /WEDNESDAY THROUGH SUNDAY/...
Brief shortwave ridging Wed into Thu, with modified polar
high building in and across Wed into Wed Night, will bring 
potential for sub freezing conds outside of NYC proper Wed 
Night. Frost/freeze headlines may be needed for NYC/NY metro 
suburbs where growing season has started. Temps generally 5 to 
10 degrees below seasonable for Wed/Wed Night.

Deep SW flow aloft amplifies Thu as a couple of PAC shortwaves
dive through the central plains towards the SE US Thu into Fri,
setting up an anomalous longitudinally deep east coast trough 
late week into the weekend. Models also coming into better 
agreement with a potential 3-4 std below normal 500mb upper low 
developing over the Tennessee River Valley as northern stream 
shortwave phases in, eventually lifting into the NE US through 
the weekend. At the surface a resultant Mid-Mississippi River 
Valley/Ohio Valley low and associated frontal system likely 
approaches the region late Thu/Thu Night, and then likely stalls
near the region Fri thru the weekend as it becomes aligned with
the N/S deepening east coast trough. This culminates in 
developing southern low pressure tracking up the coast through 
the weekend in response to the upper low. 

Models trending into better agreement in the synoptics, but
still inherent 5-7 day model spread in location/amplitude of 
trough development and timing/location/intensity of closed low 
development, due to the interdependency on the interaction of 
several shortwaves. This of course, will affect the exact 
location of the resultant stalling frontal system, and track of 
coastal low. 

Overall, confidence is increasing on unsettled conditions Fri
into next weekend, with potential for a period or periods of 
heavy rain based on synoptic setup and potential sub-tropical 
moisture connection. Overall though, predictability on rainfall 
details is inherently low at this timeframe (see hydrology 
section), with increasing detail as the week progresses.

&&

.AVIATION /00Z MONDAY THROUGH FRIDAY/...
A stationary front remains S of the area thru Mon. Low pres
develops along the front on Mon, tracking E of the area Mon 
ngt. 

VFR conditions will lower to MVFR with periods of IFR as light 
rain develops late tonight and continues on Monday. At KSWF, the
rain may mix with snow or change over to all snow at times, 
especially 09-15Z. 

A light NW/VRB flow this eve veers to the NE thru tngt, and
remains thru 00Z Tue. The flow becomes swly aft 2Z Tue. Wind
speeds generally blw 10kt thru the TAF period, although speeds
may begin to pick up right before 6Z Tue with the approach of a
strong front.

 ...NY Metro (KEWR/KLGA/KJFK/KTEB) TAF Uncertainty...

Amendments likely for changing flight categories tonight.

.OUTLOOK FOR 00Z TUESDAY THROUGH FRIDAY...

Monday Night: MVFR or lower becoming VFR with strong NW winds. 

Tuesday: VFR. W-NW wind gusts 25-35 kt with gusts around 40kt, 
diminishing at night. 

Wednesday-Thursday: VFR.

Friday: VFR-MVFR with a chance of showers.

&&

.MARINE...
Elevated seas on the ocean continue due to lingering SE swells.
The SCA for the ocean from Fire Island to Moriches Inlet will 
continue through 2 am. For the ocean east of Moriches, have 
extended the SCA through Monday. Seas may briefly subside below 
5 ft Monday morning, but may build back above 5 ft as swells 
continue from another passing low pressure system. Elevated seas
may persist into Monday night. The passage of a cold front late
Monday night into Tuesday morning will bring strong winds for 
Tuesday and Tuesday night. NW winds 20-25 kt with gusts up to 35
kt are expected on all waters Tuesday. Winds should begin 
subsiding Tuesday night, but likely stay at SCA levels. Ocean 
seas will build to 5-8 ft on Tuesday and only slowly subside 
Tuesday night.

Winds and then ocean seas subside below SCA late Tue Night
into Wed AM from west to east as high pressure builds south of 
the waters. Sub advisory remain through Thursday as high 
pressure slide across. 

Potential for SCA conditions to return for the ocean waters Fri
into next weekend, but low predictability at this point.

&&

.HYDROLOGY...
There are no hydrologic concerns through Thursday. 

Low predictability on hydrologic concerns for late week/next 
weekend with potential for a long duration rain event Friday-Sat
Night period. NBM probs are showing a 20-30% prob for 1" in 24 
hrs and 10% prob of 2" in 24 hours during the Fri-Sat Night 
period.

&&

.OKX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CT...None.
NY...None.
NJ...None.
MARINE...Gale Watch from Tuesday morning through Tuesday evening for 
     ANZ331-332-335-338-340-345-350-353-355.
     Small Craft Advisory until 6 PM EDT Monday for ANZ350.
     Small Craft Advisory until 2 AM EDT Monday for ANZ353.
     Small Craft Advisory until 8 PM EDT this evening for ANZ355.

&&

$$

SYNOPSIS...DS/NV
NEAR TERM...DS
SHORT TERM...DS
LONG TERM...NV
AVIATION...JMC/20
MARINE...DS/NV
HYDROLOGY...DS/NV
