412 
FXUS61 KOKX 131150
AFDOKX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service New York NY
750 AM EDT Tue May 13 2025

.SYNOPSIS...
An area of low pressure slowly approaches from the Mid- 
Atlantic today and Wednesday and passes nearby during Thursday.
Another frontal system impacts the area for the end of the week
into next weekend.

&&

.NEAR TERM /UNTIL 6 PM THIS EVENING/...
Forecast remains on track this morning with minor adjustments to
account for observations. Showers are trying to make their way
into the western portion of the area but despite seemingly
decent radar returns, much of this rain is falling out of a 
mid-level deck and is struggling to reach the ground.

High pressure remains to the east of the area today with a broad
low pressure system approaching from the southwest through the
day. This low will slowly move over the area through the middle
of the week.

Clouds are continuing to build into the area from the southwest
along with a broken shield of light rain showers. These rain
showers should begin to approach NE NJ and the NYC metro later 
this morning, but models have largely backed off on the 
intensity and eastward progression as the rain pushes into the 
high pressure positioned off to the east. As a result, much of 
the CWA is expected to be dry for much of the day, perhaps with 
the exception of NE NJ and the NYC metro. High temperatures
today will be in the upper 60s to the middle 70s.

&&

.SHORT TERM /6 PM THIS EVENING THROUGH THURSDAY NIGHT/...
The low continues to make its slow progression into the area
tonight with additional showers moving in from the southwest. As
the BL saturates and the high pressure to the east gives way a
bit, showers should be able to make some eastward movement by
tonight with much of the area seeing at least some light rain,
though it may not be until after midnight or toward daybreak for
central and eastern areas.

By Wednesday, the southeasterly flow increases as the low comes
closer to the area. As the upper trough works its way overhead,
the development of some subtle elevated instability may allow
for the development of more convective-type showers and some 
embedded thunderstorms. This may allow for briefly moderate to
heavier rain, though it's expected to be embedded in a more
widespread light rain. Highs Wednesday will be in the middle
60s, given the ongoing precipitation.

On and off showers with perhaps some thunderstorms continue 
Wednesday night and into early Thursday as the low continues to
move overhead. By Thursday, much of the precipitation should 
move northeast of the area but with the upper trough overhead,
additional scattered showers or isolated thunderstorms will be
possible through the afternoon. The area should begin to dry out
a bit by Thursday night.

&&

.LONG TERM /FRIDAY THROUGH MONDAY/...
A warm front associated with a cutoff low over the western Great 
Lakes region lifts north Friday into Friday night with with ridging 
aloft mitigating shower chances. A cold front follows for Saturday 
into Saturday night with additional showers and maybe a thunderstorm.

Uncertainty then increases for Sunday and Monday, stemming from 
global model disagreement on the placement of the cut off/upper low. 
There's general agreement that it remains to our north, but still 
cannot rule out a diurnally-driven shower both days as a surface 
trough and cyclonic flow aloft are potentially in the area.

Above normal temperatures are expected for Friday and especially 
Saturday with the area warm sectored. Temperatures will be in the 
70s to around 80 away from the coast, with low to middle 70s along 
the coast. After Saturday, the area will be in a cooling trend, with 
slightly cooler readings for Sunday compared to Saturday, and 
temperatures close to normal for Monday.

&&

.AVIATION /12Z TUESDAY THROUGH SATURDAY/...
A weak cold front approaches from the north tonight and moves 
through the forecast area this morning into the afternoon, stalling 
near the metro terminals. At the same time, a weak area of low 
pressure approaches from the south.

VFR conditions expected through much of the day today. MVFR chances 
increase from west to east thereafter for the rest of the TAF 
period. 

Some light rain is possible this morning for NYC and Lower Hudson 
Valley terminals. Chances for rain increase for NYC and Lower Hudson 
Valley terminals this afternoon into start of this evening with MVFR 
chances also increasing, though MVFR conditions are possible with 
any showers in the afternoon. Conditions deteriorate to IFR by late 
tonight for these areas. To the east, expecting mainly dry 
conditions and VFR conditions to prevail through much of this 
afternoon, with MVFR or lower expected by overnight tonight.
There is a low to medium chance of LIFR conditions around 06Z 
and thereafter. 

Winds through the TAF period are around 10 kts or less. Wind 
direction generally S to SE shifting to the SE early this 
morning, then E to ESE this afternoon.
 

 ...NY Metro (KEWR/KLGA/KJFK/KTEB) TAF Uncertainty...

MVFR and IFR timing could be a few hours off from TAF.

.OUTLOOK FOR 12Z WEDNESDAY THROUGH SATURDAY...

Tuesday night through Wednesday night: Low stratus/fog with IFR 
conditions at times. Periods of rain. Slight chance of thunderstorms 
Wednesday afternoon into Wednesday night. E-SE winds G20kt possible 
on Wednesday afternoon into early evening.

Thursday: MVFR possible with a chance of showers.

Friday and Saturday: Mainly VFR, chance of MVFR and showers.
Slight chance of thunderstorms afternoon into early evening.

Detailed information, including hourly TAF wind component forecasts, 
can be found at: https:/www.weather.gov/zny/n90

&&

.MARINE...
Sub-SCA conditions are expected on all waters through tonight. 
Onshore flow will help build seas to 5-6 ft on the ocean waters 
during Wednesday along with gusts around 25 kt. Winds weaken 
Wednesday night, however a residual swell should keep seas at 
advisory levels through the night and into a portion of 
Thursday. Sub-advisory conditions then follow for Thursday night 
through Sunday with winds remaining at around 10kt or less.

&&

.HYDROLOGY...
Rainfall this afternoon through Wednesday night is expected to 
average around a half of an inch across the area, but locally upwards
of an inch is possible. No hydrologic impacts are expected with
this event, and no impacts are expected thereafter through 
Monday.

&&

.OKX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CT...None.
NY...None.
NJ...None.
MARINE...None.

&&

$$

SYNOPSIS...MW
NEAR TERM...MW
SHORT TERM...MW
LONG TERM...JP
AVIATION...JP
MARINE...JP/MW
HYDROLOGY...JP/MW
