625 
FXUS61 KOKX 240917
AFDOKX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service New York NY
517 AM EDT Sat May 24 2025

.SYNOPSIS...
Low pressure over New England slowly tracks into the Canadian 
Maritimes this weekend before a broad area of high pressure 
builds over the region through the beginning of next week. A 
frontal system may impact the area for the middle of the week.

&&

.NEAR TERM /THROUGH TONIGHT/...
Closed low trough continues to swing through the Northeast today, 
with the surface low drifting from northern New England into Nova 
Scotia. Shortwave rotating around the broader trough could help
to instigate showers at times, though the day is far from a 
washout.

Given the cold pool aloft, H85 progged near freezing, temperatures
remain unseasonably cool, and afternoon highs in the low to mid
60s run a good 5 to 10 degrees below climo for late May. A bit 
tighter pressure gradient with the slowly exiting low and 
building high off to the west will lead to a bit stronger flow 
from the WNW, supporting gusts 20 to 30 mph thru the day.

While some clearing to start the morning, cyclonic flow aloft 
will yield mostly cloudy skies by afternoon, and with the 
shortwave energy and steeper low level lapse rates with the cold
pool, potential for rain showers to pop up, mainly in the 
afternoon and evening. Coverage likely more scattered in nature 
across the interior with better forcing, and more isolated for 
coastal locales. Continued to go a bit above NBM PoPs to include
chance (25-40%) probabilities inland and slight chance (<25%) 
along the coast.

Any showers should largely end after sunset with loss of 
heating and instability. Skies become mostly clear and set up
another relatively cool night, falling into the 40s inland and 
lower 50s closer to the coast.

&&

.SHORT TERM /SUNDAY THROUGH SUNDAY NIGHT/...
Slow moving low meanders over the Canadian Maritimes on Sunday as 
high pressure over the Great Lakes continues to build in locally.

Still additional shortwave energy rotating around the trough
thru late day, which will maintain at least the chance for a 
few rain showers at times, though coverage appears lower than on
Saturday. Best chance looks to be in the afternoon across the 
interior, mainly north and west of NYC, but can't rule out 
entirely a few isolated showers down to the coast. Plenty of 
stratocu development once again, which should lead to more 
clouds than sun much of the day.

Temperatures begin to moderate about 5 degrees from the start of the 
weekend, and daytime highs range from mid 60s to around 70. A more 
relaxed pressure gradient will slacken the flow from the previous 
day as well. Any convective activity dissipates by early evening
as temperatures fall back into the 40s and 50s once again overnight.

&&

.LONG TERM /MONDAY THROUGH FRIDAY/...
High pres will build over the area Mon and Tue. As nwly flow aloft 
develops, despite the high building in, there could be an isold shwr 
each day particularly across the interior. A warming trend thru the 
period with temps close to normal on Tue.

Zonal flow aloft then develops for Wed-Fri. This will allow for chcs 
for shwrs, depending on the exact timing of any embedded shrtwv 
energy. Cooler on Wed with a light sely flow off the ocean, then a 
waa regime develops thru the end of the week with another slight 
warming trend the result. Temps will be held back a little on Thu 
due to continued onshore component flow. It would not be surprising 
to see some fog develop by Thu mrng, with perhaps some additional 
fog Thu ngt.

&&

.AVIATION /09Z SATURDAY THROUGH WEDNESDAY/...
Low pressure will continue to slowly track off the eastern New 
England coast then meander over northern New England through
this afternoon.

VFR. Isold shwrs producing a brief drop to MVFR possible today,
but coverage and timing too uncertain to include in the TAFs.

Increasing W winds thru 12Z. W winds continue for Saturday at 
around 15 kt to 20 kt, with gusts of 20 to 25 kt by mid to late 
morning. Speeds decrease a little Sat ngt.


  ...NY Metro (KEWR/KLGA/KJFK/KTEB) TAF Uncertainty...

There is a chance of isold shwrs 14-22Z.


.OUTLOOK FOR 06Z SUNDAY THROUGH WEDNESDAY...

Tonight: VFR. W winds 5-10 kt.

Sunday: MVFR. NW winds 10-15G20 kt. 

Monday: VFR. NW winds 10-15 kt.

Tuesday: VFR.

Wednesday: Chance of showers with possible MVFR cond. 

Detailed information, including hourly TAF wind component forecasts, 
can be found at: https:/www.weather.gov/zny/n90

&&

.MARINE...
Small Craft Advisory (SCA) on the ocean remains in effect
through 22Z this evening with marginal 25 kt gusts and 5 ft seas
expected. SCA still includes NY Harbor and LI South Shore Bays 
as wind gusts will likely end up near 25 kt late morning into 
the afternoon. Winds lighten this evening, and sub SCA
conditions then expected on all waters tonight through Sunday
night.

Winds and seas look to remain blw sca lvls Mon-Thu with a broad 
area of high pres in the region.

&&

.HYDROLOGY...
No hydrologic impacts expected through Friday of next week.

&&

.TIDES/COASTAL FLOODING...
There is potential for localized minor coastal flooding Sun into 
early next week with approach of the new moon, causing areas to need 
as little as 1/4 ft of tidal departure for minor coastal flooding.

There is a high risk of rip currents along local Atlantic beaches 
through this evening due to elevated ocean seas up to 5 ft and 
WNW flow near 15 kt with stronger gusts. Modeled rip current 
probabilities yields highest threat from late morning into 
early afternoon.

Outlook for the rest of the Memorial Day Weekend: 

The rip current risk for Sunday is moderate as winds and seas 
gradually subside.

Rip current risk reduces to low for Memorial Day, as swells continue 
to subside.

&&

.OKX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CT...None.
NY...High Risk for Rip Currents through this evening for NYZ075-080-081-
     178-179.
NJ...None.
MARINE...Small Craft Advisory until 6 PM EDT this evening for ANZ338-
     345.
     Small Craft Advisory until 6 PM EDT this evening for ANZ350-
     353-355.

&&

$$

SYNOPSIS...JMC/DR
NEAR TERM...DR
SHORT TERM...DR
LONG TERM...JMC
AVIATION...JMC
MARINE...JMC/DR
HYDROLOGY...JMC/DR
TIDES/COASTAL FLOODING...DR
