180 
FXUS61 KOKX 140241
AFDOKX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service New York NY
941 PM EST Thu Feb 13 2025

.SYNOPSIS...
Deepening low pressure will track across Canadian Maritimes 
through Friday night, while high pressure gradually builds in 
from the west. High pressure over the area Saturday morning 
quickly gives way to a storm system approaching from the mid 
section of the country. The associated warm front approaches 
Saturday into Saturday night. Deepening low pressure will then 
track to the north and west of the area Sunday, with a secondary
coastal low developing nearby. A strong cold frontal passage 
follows Sunday afternoon into early evening. High pressure then 
slowly builds back in early next week. Low pressure may impact 
the area mid week.

&&

.NEAR TERM /UNTIL 6 AM FRIDAY MORNING/...
A secondary cold front moved through the region with strong 
northwest wind gusts of 35 to 40 kt. A strong WNW flow and will 
persist through the night as deepening low pressure lifts up 
into the Canadian Maritimes. Gusts will generally be 25-30 kt 
overnight with a few higher gusts possible. 

The main limiting factor for gust magnitude is the overnight 
timing and weak llvl lapse rates. As a result, the fcst keeps 
winds just blw advy lvls, but the numbers have been increased 
fairly substantially abv the model guidance - particularly the 
NBM. The grids indicate an initial surge in the 00-04Z range, 
then settling down slightly into the mrng. This initial surge is
where we could have some isold advy lvl gusts.

Otherwise, skies will clear this eve with dry air and subsidence.
Upstream stratus might hold together to produce some sct 3-4kft
clouds overnight, but downsloping should limit coverage.

With a well mixed bl, the NBM temps seems reasonable with local 
adjustments.

&&

.SHORT TERM /6 AM FRIDAY MORNING THROUGH FRIDAY NIGHT/...
Windy and dry or Fri with deep subsidence and a dry airmass. 
Increasing mid and high clouds in the aftn. With this setup, 
increased winds abv the blended guidance. H85 in the NAM roughly 
45kt, slightly less in the GFS. As a result, gusts to around 40 mph 
seems reasonable attm. 

Winds do decrease significantly Fri eve and ngt as a 1030s high 
ridges across the region. Fairly thick mid and high clouds however 
from the next sys approaching, so this should limit radiational 
cooling potential. 

Fro Fri and Fri ngt went close to the NBM for temps which produces 
highs in the 30s and lows in the teens and 20s.

&&

.LONG TERM /SATURDAY THROUGH THURSDAY/...
Another amplified southern branch storm system will impact the
area Saturday afternoon into Sunday. Low pressure over the Mid
Mississippi Valley will be preceded by strong thermal forcing 
that moves into the area Saturday ahead of the associated warm 
front. There has clearly been a colder trend in the guidance
over the last couple of days with probabilities increasing both
with the NBM and long range ensemble forecast system (EPS, 
GEFS, and GEPS) for an advisory level snowfall event for CT, 
the Lower Hudson Valley, and interior NE NJ. Even the 12Z GFS 
and NAM show this potential across NYC and LI before a changeover
to all rain. However, confidence is lower for coastal locations
due to retreating and weakening high pressure and an onshore 
southerly component. Typically, these ingredients don't fair 
well for a significant winter precipitation event. However,
these type of systems of late with decent thermal forcing have
provided accumulating snow before the elevated warm nose comes 
in aloft. There is no doubt the precipitation will change over 
to rain with a deep-layered strengthening W/SW flow ahead of the
amplifying southern branch upper trough. How quickly that
happens will be key to the amount of snow. In addition, there 
now looks to the potential for significant icing across the 
interior once the precipitation changes over rain. The surface 
warm front is poised to stay south of the area through Saturday 
night and arrives along the coast Sunday morning. However, it 
now looks like the approaching upper forcing will result in the 
quicker development of a secondary low along the coast Sunday in
close proximity to the area. While this will not inhibit the 
warm air from arriving aloft, it will likely slow down the 
erosion of the low-level cold air across some of the interior, 
especially across northern portions of the Lower Hudson Valley 
and northern portions of Fairfield and New Haven counties in SW 
CT. These locations have the potential for a tenth of an inch or
more of ice accretion. The combination of snow and ice could 
also necessitate a Winter Storm Watch within the next 24h for 
some of these locations, and at the very least Winter Weather 
Advisories. 

As for temperatures, overnight lows Saturday morning will be in
the teens inland to the lower/mid 20s along the coast. Temperatures
will then be slow to rise and may not go above freezing until 
late afternoon/early evening along the coast, and as late as 
Sunday morning for the far interior. Temperatures on Sunday 
then rise up into the upper 30s inland and upper 40s along the 
coast. 

Following a cold frontal passage Sunday afternoon and evening, 
a much colder airmass arrives for next week. In fact, the NBM 
has continued to trend down the last 24h and will continue to 
go slightly colder at this time. A piece of arctic air associated
with a polar vortex drops across the Great Lakes Sunday night 
into Monday. This will be accompanied by a gusty WNW flow Sunday
night into Tuesday. Highs will top out generally in the 20s with 
lows in the single digits to teens beginning Tuesday morning,
Winds chill values will be as low as the single digits at night
and in the teens during the daytime.

Cold high pressure builds in for Wednesday with some uncertainty
with the southern branch storm track. Long term models differ
in the timing and track of low pressure passing to the south
late Wednesday into Thursday. There are low chances for snow 
at this time.

&&

.AVIATION /03Z FRIDAY THROUGH TUESDAY/...
High pressure builds into the region through Friday.

VFR.

Gusty W/NW winds through tonight, with occasional peak gusts 35
to 40 kt this evening. Sustained winds and gusts diminish late 
tonight into Friday morning, then increase again to 25-30 kt 
after 14z. Then by late afternoon Friday winds and gusts 
diminish, with gusts possibly ending by 00Z Saturday.


 ...NY Metro (KEWR/KLGA/KJFK/KTEB) TAF Uncertainty...

Peak gusts 35 to 40 kt possible this evening.

.OUTLOOK FOR 00Z SATURDAY THROUGH TUESDAY... 

Friday Night: VFR.

Saturday-Saturday Night: VFR early, the IFR in snow in the 
afternoon. The snow should transition to rain along the coast in 
the evening, and inland at night. A wintry mix may remain 
inland through the night. 

Sunday: IFR or lower. Rain with a chance of freezing rain inland in 
the morning. LLWS possible. S Gusts 20-25 kt.

Monday: VFR with WNW wind gusts 30-35 kt.

Tuesday: VFR with WNW wind gusts 20-25 kt.

Detailed information, including hourly TAF wind component forecasts, 
can be found at: https:/www.weather.gov/zny/n90

&&

.MARINE...
A gale warning remains in effect for all the forecast waters as
winds gust 35 to 40 kt. Gales are expected thru Fri, with winds
and seas decreasing rapidly late Fri and Fri ngt.

High pressure on Saturday morning gives way to another storm 
system Saturday afternoon into Sunday. SCA conditions are 
forecast to redevelop on the ocean waters late Saturday night 
and across all waters Sunday in a strengthening southerly flow 
ahead of an approaching cold front and deepening low pressure 
passing to the northwest. However, behind a strong cold frontal
passage late Sunday afternoon into evening, a westerly gale 
will be possible across all waters Sunday night into Monday.

&&

.HYDROLOGY...
While there are no significant hydrologic concerns at this time,
this will need to be watched over the next couple of days with 
the potential for 1.25 to 1.75" of liquid equivalent Saturday 
into Sunday morning. Some of this will fall in the form of snow 
and ice before transitioning to all rain. The liquid equivalent
of the existing snowpack is about 0.25 to 0.75". However, this 
is not all expected to rapidly melt and some of it will be 
absorbed by the additional snowfall on Saturday. Gridded 
flash flood guidance over a 6hr period is generally above 2 
inches with the exception of NE NJ. Minor flooding of some of 
the quicker responding rivers and streams is possible. WPC does
have the area under a marginal risk for excessive rainfall.

&&

.OKX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CT...None.
NY...None.
NJ...None.
MARINE...Gale Warning until 4 PM EST Friday for ANZ331-332-335-338-340-
     345-350-353-355.

&&

$$

SYNOPSIS...JMC/DW
NEAR TERM...JMC/MET/DW
SHORT TERM...JMC
LONG TERM...DW
AVIATION...MET
MARINE...JMC/DW
HYDROLOGY...JMC/DW
