925 
FXUS61 KOKX 030528
AFDOKX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service New York NY
1228 AM EST Fri Jan 3 2025

.SYNOPSIS...
Low pressure spins over eastern Quebec through Friday. A weak 
low passes south of the area Friday night. Deepening low 
pressure continues to move away from the region Saturday as weak
high pressure builds in from the west through Sunday. Low 
pressure passes to the south Sunday night through Monday. Strong
Canadian high pressure builds to the west Monday night into the
middle of next week.

&&

.NEAR TERM /UNTIL 6 AM THIS MORNING/...
The area remains in windy nwly flow tngt with low pres over QC and 
high pres over the Southeast. Remaining breezy, but gusts 
have decreased and will continue to do so. Some outlying areas
are starting to lose prevailing gusts, with just some occasional
gusts expected late in the overnight.

Flurries and snow showers across mainly NW locales for a few
more hours, otherwise partly cloudy to mostly clear skies should
prevail late in the overnight.

With the breezy conditions overnight, the NBM seemed reasonable
for temps attm. If the winds go calm even briefly early Fri 
mrng, some of the outlying areas would drop several degrees 
colder than fcst. This will be difficult to achieve with a 
synoptic pressure gradient still in place.

&&

.SHORT TERM /6 AM THIS MORNING THROUGH 6 PM SATURDAY/...
The flow veers to the w on Fri, so lake moisture should stay n 
of the cwa thru the day. Breezy with unidirectional well mixed 
flow, but winds aloft only around 30kt at h85 so peak gusts 
around 25kt expected attm.

Upr lvl trof axis comes thru Fri ngt. The models suggest a weak low 
spinup and a shield of lgt pcpn with the sys. Have some pops over 
the ocean, but the consensus right now is to keep any light 
snow s of the cwa. If the sys trends n, there could be some lgt 
snow or flurries, particularly srn areas, Fri ngt.

Went with the NBM with local adjustments for temps Fri and Fri
ngt.

&&

.LONG TERM /SATURDAY NIGHT THROUGH THURSDAY/...
Key Points:

* Light snow possible late Sunday night through Monday as low 
  pressure passes to the south.

* Seasonably cold with a persistent NW flow through the period.

A nearly blocked upper flow persists Saturday into the middle of 
next week with low pressure over eastern Canada and into the 
northeastern United States. A seasonably cold airmass will remain in 
place Saturday into Monday with temperatures near 5 degrees below 
normal. A shortwave moving through the southern branch will develop 
surface low pressure over the southern plains, that tracks through 
the mid Atlantic region, passing to the south late Sunday night 
through Monday. With a cold airmass in place a light snowfall is 
possible across the forecast area, with the most snow falling across 
the southern areas, across the  NYC metro and Long Island. With the 
low passing to the south followed the NBM probabilities with a 
chance of light snow. The cold airmass is reinforced as the low 
tracks east and Canadian high pressure builds to the west as the 
blocking pattern persists. Tuesday into Thursday temperatures will 
be near 10 degrees below normal. No record high and/or lows are 
forecast to be set through the extended period.

&&

.AVIATION /06Z FRIDAY THROUGH TUESDAY/...
Low pressure will remain to the north over Southeastern Canada 
through the TAF period. A weak low moves quickly to the south later 
today and quickly off the coast Friday night.

VFR prevails through the TAF period. W flow continues with gusts 
lower, but continuing through the overnight at the city terminals, 
with the exception being some outlying terminals where gusts end 
briefly. W winds continue Friday with gusts at around 20 kt, 
with gusts ending towards 21-23z. 

 ...NY Metro (KEWR/KLGA/KJFK/KTEB) TAF Uncertainty... 

No amendments expected.

OUTLOOK FOR 06Z SATURDAY THROUGH TUESDAY...

Late Friday night: VFR. NW winds increase late.

Saturday: VFR. WNW gusts 25-35kt.

Sunday: VFR. W gusts 20-25kt.

Monday: Chance of light snow. MVFR cond likely, IFR possible at the 
NYC metros/KISP. 

Tuesday: VFR. WNW gusts 25-35kt.

Detailed information, including hourly TAF wind component forecasts, 
can be found at: https:/www.weather.gov/zny/n90

&&

.MARINE...
In the process of converting over gales to small crafts, with 
winds gradually subsiding blw gale for all waters by sunrise 
Fri. Small crafts therefore get inserted thru Fri, and Fri ngt 
for much of the waters with residual high seas and gusty winds.

Small craft advisory level wind gusts are possible across all the 
forecast waters Saturday through Sunday, with SCA ocean seas, with 
a strong and gusty west to northwest flow behind offshore deepening 
low pressure that tracks into the Canadian Maritime Saturday night. 
The New York Harbor will be more marginal, or below SCA gusts during 
Sunday. By early Sunday night conditions will be below advisory 
levels on the non ocean waters as weak high pressure builds into the 
area. And, by late Sunday night even the ocean waters will fall 
below advisory levels. Monday tranquil conditions will continue as a 
rather quick moving low passes to the south of Long Island. Then 
with the low deepening Monday night northerly winds gusts are 
expected to develop across all the forecast waters, and continue 
into Tuesday. There is the potential for gusts across the ocean 
waters to be near gale force, especially east of Fire Island Inlet, 
late Tuesday into Tuesday night.

&&

.HYDROLOGY...
No significant hydrologic issues anticipated thru the middle of
next week.

&&

.OKX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CT...None.
NY...None.
NJ...None.
MARINE...Gale Warning until 1 AM EST early this morning for ANZ331-340-
     345-355.
     Gale Warning until 4 AM EST early this morning for ANZ332-350-
     353.
     Small Craft Advisory until 4 PM EST this afternoon for ANZ335-
     338.

&&

$$

SYNOPSIS...JMC/MET
NEAR TERM...JMC/JE
SHORT TERM...JMC
LONG TERM...MET
AVIATION...JE/DR
MARINE...JMC/JE/MET
HYDROLOGY...JMC/MET
