802 
FXUS61 KOKX 262356
AFDOKX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service New York NY
656 PM EST Sun Jan 26 2025

.SYNOPSIS...
Weak high pressure will be in place through Monday. Low pressure 
passes well to the north Monday night, dragging a cold front 
through on Tuesday. Weak high pressure moving across Tuesday 
night will give way to an Alberta Clipper low tracking to the 
north on Wednesday, with a trailing cold front passing through 
by Wednesday evening. High pressure will then build from the 
west from Wednesday night into Thursday, and retreat to the 
northeast on Friday as a low pressure system approaches for the 
weekend.

&&

.NEAR TERM /UNTIL 6 AM MONDAY MORNING/...
Weak high pressure will be in place tonight. Dry, with mid to 
high-level clouds making it appear mostly cloudy from time to 
time through at least the first half of tonight, then skies 
clear out towards daybreak with the as moisture above 600mb 
shifts east of the region. Temperatures fall back to levels similar
to last night, with teens inland and 20s along the coast. 

&&

.SHORT TERM /6 AM MONDAY MORNING THROUGH TUESDAY/...
Subsidence sets up abundant sunshine Monday with clear skies. 
Low level flow begins to strengthen ahead of the next incoming 
frontal system, and SW gusts 25 to 30 mph develop by day's end.
Slightly cooler air mass in place Monday, a couple of degrees 
cooler from the previous day, with afternoon highs generally 
spanning the mid 30s inland to around 40 along the coast.

A bit more potent shortwave rounds the base of the broader trough 
into Monday night. Associated surface low well to the north rapidly 
deepens as it does so, dragging another cold front toward and 
through the region on Tuesday. Pressure gradient tightens as the 
region gets sandwiched between this deepening low pressure, and a 
high centered over the Deep South. This will lead to a period of 
blustery winds late Monday through Tuesday, though it still looks to 
fall short of a wind headline, with gusts generally 30 to 35 mph, 
and a few toward 40 mph possible. Best chance of exceeding 40 mph 
are along the SE CT coast, as well as eastern LI. Deep mixing
behind the cold front should allow 30 to 35 mph gusts to remain
possible through Tuesday afternoon.

Better forcing with this front may couple with some added moisture 
from the Lakes and allow a few snow showers to move through along 
and ahead of the boundary, generally Tuesday AM, with highest 
chances across the interior. Coverage in the higher res guidance
looks isolated to scattered at best. Little to no accum with 
this activity. Frontal passage in the morning, then drying out 
Tuesday afternoon, absent a stray flurry or snow shower.

&&

.LONG TERM /TUESDAY NIGHT THROUGH SUNDAY/...
A clipper system approaches Tuesday night and tracks over 
southern/central New England Wednesday. Best pcpn chances along and 
N of the sfc low track. Although the timing seems to be in pretty 
good agreement amongst the models, the exact position of the low is 
still uncertain, with the 00Z ECMWF further N than the GFS. Both 
models however bring the CWA into the warm sector attm. Cannot rule 
out a track ending up further S, but for now will continue to follow 
the consensus modeling and keep the low N of the area, resulting in 
milder temps and lower pcpn chances and amounts. 

Thereafter, high pressure builds in through the end of the week. 
However, a frontal boundary remains draped over the area, and could 
potentially remain in the vicinity through the weekend. Another weak 
clipper system may pass over northern New England Thursday night, but 
looks to be too far north to bring any precipitation the the area. 
However, this far out, there is a great deal of uncertainty with the 
low and where the front will be, so stuck close to the NBM. 

With the area in the warm sector of the clipper system on Wednesday, 
temperatures are expected to be above normal, ranging from the lower 
to middle 40s. The front dips south of the area on Thursday, and 
below normal temperatures are once again expected, with near normal 
temperatures for Friday, and slightly warmer temperatures for 
Saturday.

&&

.AVIATION /23Z SUNDAY THROUGH FRIDAY/...
Weak high pressure remains in place through Monday.

VFR. W winds tonight under 10 kt. WSW winds increase Monday 
morning with gusts developing 17Z to 18Z. Gusts may subside for
a couple hours during the evening hours, but otherwise continue
through the night.

     NY Metro (KEWR/KLGA/KJFK/KTEB) TAF Uncertainty...

No unscheduled amendments expected. Occasional gusts Monday 
afternoon may approach 30 kt.


.OUTLOOK FOR 00Z TUESDAY THROUGH FRIDAY...

Monday night: VFR. WSW-SW gusts 25-35 kt.

Tuesday: Mainly VFR. CHC brief MVFR, possibly IFR, in snow showers. 
WNW 15-25 kt, gusts around 30 kt, with chc 35 kt along the 
coast. Winds subside PM. 

Wednesday: Chance of MVFR or lower in light snow, especially across 
the northern terminals. WSW gusts around 25 kt.

Thursday - Friday: VFR. NW gusts 20-25 kt Thursday.

Detailed information, including hourly TAF wind component forecasts, 
can be found at: https:/www.weather.gov/zny/n90

&&

.MARINE...
SCA was allowed to expire on the non-ocean waters as gusts
across all waters have dropped below 25 kt. Canceled the SCA on
the ocean west of Fire Island Inlet with seas below 5 ft for the
rest of the night. Might be able to cancel the SCA on the remaining
ocean waters with the next update later this evening as seas
continue to subside.

A strengthening flow ahead of the next frontal system will 
return Advisory conditions to all waters, first on the ocean 
Monday morning, then all other waters by the afternoon. Gales 
develop on the ocean, eastern LI Sound, and Peconic and 
Gardiners Bays Monday evening, persisting thru at least Tue 
afternoon, if not Tue evening. Gusts on these waters likely 
between 35 and 40 kt, with a few gusts exceeding 40 kt possible.
Gale Watch that had been in place for these zones has been 
upgraded to a warning. Given the strong winds, seas on the ocean
climb toward 8 to 12 feet and up to 5 ft on the LI Sound. All 
other zones will continue to see at least SCA conditions Monday 
night and Tuesday, and gales can not be ruled out, but may be 
more occasional here. Will continue a mention in the HWO.

SCA cond likely on the ocean daytime Wed with W flow gusting to 25 
kt, and may be possible on the other waters as well. SCA cond likely 
on all waters after cold fropa early Wed evening and continuing into 
Thu morning, with some gale force gusts possible on the ern ocean 
waters Wed night. SCA cond should persist on the ocean waters 
thereafter from Thu afternoon into Fri morning, and out east Fri 
afternoon/night, as flow turns westerly Thu night.

&&

.HYDROLOGY...
No hydrologic impacts expected through this week.

&&

.OKX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CT...None.
NY...None.
NJ...None.
MARINE...Gale Warning from 6 PM Monday to 1 PM EST Tuesday for ANZ332-
     340-350-353-355.
     Small Craft Advisory until 1 AM EST Monday for ANZ350-353.

&&

$$

SYNOPSIS...BG/DR
NEAR TERM...JC/DR
SHORT TERM...DR
LONG TERM...BG
AVIATION...JC
MARINE...BG/DR
HYDROLOGY...BG/DR
