456 
FXUS61 KOKX 040549
AFDOKX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service New York NY
1249 AM EST Tue Feb 4 2025

.SYNOPSIS...
A cold front approaching from central NY and northern PA
overnight will pass through by daybreak. High pressure will 
then build from the Great Lakes through Wednesday. A low 
pressure system will produce a wintry mix Wednesday night and 
Thursday. Another low may impact the area this weekend.

&&

.NEAR TERM /OVERNIGHT/...
A fast, nearly zonal upper flow through the week will feature a
series of clipper lows bringing reinforcing shots of cold air 
into the region, with brief warm-ups in between. The first of 
these will send a cold front across the area before daybreak. 
There is some lift along and ahead of the front, but the airmass
is moisture-starved and not expecting anything more than spotty
sprinkles. Low level warm advection ahead of the front and a 
gradually strengthening SW flow will keep temperatures mainly 
above freezing, as well as produce advection low clouds across 
eastern Long Island and SE CT. Otherwise there will also be 
plenty of mid and high level clouds streaming in from the west.

&&

.SHORT TERM /TODAY THROUGH 6 PM WEDNESDAY/...
Following a cold frontal passage, strong cold advection will be
ushered in on a gusty NW flow today. Expect gusts by late 
morning and afternoon of 25-35 mph. Temperatures to start will 
be in the mid 30s to lower 40s and will only rise a few more 
degrees through the day. Gusts gradually diminish overnight as
temperatures get back to near normal, with lows by morning in
the upper teens inland to the lower 20s at the coast. 

High pressure then settles across the area on Wed with
increasing high/midlevel clouds ahead of the next frontal 
system approaching from the west. Highs will only top out in the
lower/mid 30s, which is about 5 degrees below avg. 

&&

.LONG TERM /WEDNESDAY NIGHT THROUGH MONDAY/...
There are two systems to watch. The first arrives Wed ngt and 
Thu. There is no significant change to the fcst thinking based 
on the 12Z modeling. Snow begins Wed ngt, most likely aft 
midnight, then transitions to a wintry mix late at ngt and 
during Thu mrng from S to NW. Went with snow accums of around 2 
inches across the interior, with lesser amounts elsewhere. There
is room for upward adjustment across the interior as the 
initial snow could add up quickly. Also, a period of fzra is 
expected across the interior, particularly nwrn areas locked out
of the onshore sely flow. At the coasts, the onshore flow is 
expected to warm the bl enough to greatly reduce the chances for
fzra, where more of a snow to sleet and rain to rain transition
is anticipated attm.

A cfp occurs late Thu ngt into Fri, cooling off temps again for Fri 
with gusty nwly winds. Gusts around 40mph seem reasonable attm with 
with h85 winds in the GFS about 40 kt. 

The next sys is progged for the weekend - the current modeling 
suggests mainly Sat ngt and Sun. Did stick with the NBM pops 
which keeps some chances for the day on Sat due to uncertainty 
this far out. Again, this is a WAA laden Pacific based sys so 
expect another wintry mix type event.

Another shot of cold air then looks poised to infiltrate the
region during the beginning of next week.

&&

.AVIATION /06Z TUESDAY THROUGH SATURDAY/...
A cold front will move through overnight before the start of the
AM push. 

A period of IFR/LIFR in low clouds for KISP/KGON until 08Z-09Z,
otherwise mainly VFR. LLWS likely until 08Z with WSW winds 45 kt
at FL020. Sfc winds generally SW to start, shifting W-NW and
increasing for the AM push. NW winds G20-30kt for this
afternoon. 

...NY Metro (KEWR/KLGA/KJFK/KTEB) TAF Uncertainty...

No amendments expected. 

.OUTLOOK FOR 06Z WEDNESDAY THROUGH SATURDAY... 

Late tonight: VFR with diminishing NW winds. 

Wednesday: VFR. 

Wednesday night: MVFR or lower cond in light snow, mixing with sleet 
late for most terminals, with rain also mixed in at KEWR/KJFK. 

Thursday: MVFR or lower cond as precip changes to freezing
rain/sleet and then rain at KSWF, and to plain rain elsewhere. 

Thursday night: Rain ending. West winds G20kt late. 

Friday: VFR. NW winds G25kt. 

Saturday: Chance of snow with IFR cond in the afternoon. Mixed
precip becoming likely at night. 

Detailed information, including hourly TAF wind component
forecasts, can be found at: https:/www.weather.gov/zny/n90

&&

.MARINE...
Winds and seas have begun to build in a SW flow ahead of an 
approaching cold front, with SCA cond on the ocean E of Fire 
Island Inlet (seas up to 5 ft and gusts just shy of 25 kt as of
midnight). SCA cond develop on all waters on Wednesday in a 
strong NW flow, with gusts up to 30 kt possible. Winds and seas
then gradually lower Tue night into Wed with high pressure 
building from the NW, with sub-SCA conditions on all waters
daytime Wed. 

Winds and seas increase on Thu, with SCA possible, especially on
the ocean. NW gales are possible on Fri behind a cold front.
Winds and seas fall blw SCA lvls on Sat, then may ramp up again
on Sunday with another sys. 

&&

.HYDROLOGY...
There are no hydrologic concerns through next weekend.

&&

.OKX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CT...None.
NY...None.
NJ...None.
MARINE...Small Craft Advisory from 9 AM this morning to 10 PM EST this 
     evening for ANZ331-332-335-338-340-345.
     Small Craft Advisory until 1 AM EST Wednesday for ANZ350-353.
     Small Craft Advisory from 6 AM this morning to 1 AM EST 
     Wednesday for ANZ355.

&&

$$

SYNOPSIS...JMC/DW
NEAR TERM...JE/DW
SHORT TERM...DW
LONG TERM...JMC
AVIATION...JE/BG
MARINE...JMC/DW
HYDROLOGY...JMC/DW
