334 
FXUS61 KOKX 031231
AFDOKX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service New York NY
731 AM EST Mon Feb 3 2025

.SYNOPSIS...
A warm front moves farther northeast of the area today. A cold
front moves across late tonight. High pressure then builds in 
from the Great Lakes on Tuesday. This high pressure area will 
continue building in Tuesday night and center over the area on 
Wednesday. A frontal system will approach Wednesday night and 
impact the area into Thursday evening. High pressure will then 
return for Thursday night into Friday night, then slide east on 
Saturday. Another frontal system will begin to approach Saturday
afternoon and impact the area into Sunday.

&&

.NEAR TERM /UNTIL 6 PM THIS EVENING/...
Forecast generally on track.

Still have quite a large part of the region with freezing or 
below temperatures so any untreated surfaces will still likely 
have some ice, creating slippery conditions. In addition, across
parts of the interior, some freezing fog has been reported. 
Special weather statement out to address this until 9AM. Region
will get more substantially above freezing from south to north
between 9 AM and 11 AM.

Otherwise, dry conditions are expected today along with low
level warm air advection. Mostly cloudy conditions will limit
the sensible heat transfer. Taking that into account, using
blend of NBM and MAV and MET guidance for high temperatures,
ranging mainly from the lower/mid 40s.

&&

.SHORT TERM /6 PM THIS EVENING THROUGH WEDNESDAY/...
For tonight, a cold front approaches from the north and west.
The cold front moves through late. Most of the shortwave energy
will be displaced well north of the region and mid level dry air
will keep conditions dry at the surface. Some model guidance is
indicating potential fog advection across outlying coastal
areas. Have patchy fog for Long Island and Southern CT for
tonight.

Just expecting clouds to remain abundant with temperatures not 
dropping too much tonight as the boundary layer stays more mixed
and the clouds limit radiational cooling. Lows forecast range 
from the low to upper 30s.

For Tuesday, highs for the day are likely set in the morning
with post-frontal strengthening NW gusty flow then developing.
This will cause temperatures to be nearly steady late morning 
into the early afternoon and then actually decrease for the 
latter half of the afternoon. Took a blend of NBM and MAV and 
MET guidance for high temperatures and manually lowered an extra
degree. Highs Tuesday range from the upper 30s to lower 40s, 
slightly colder than the previous day.

High pressure continues to build in Tuesday night into
Wednesday. Much colder lows forecast Tuesday night, ranging 
mainly from the upper teens to lower 20s.

The high pressure area centers over the local region on
Wednesday. Dry conditions are expected to remain. Highs from 
NBM on Wednesday and are much colder than previous few days, 
only ranging from low to mid 30s for much of the area.

&&

.LONG TERM /WEDNESDAY NIGHT THROUGH SUNDAY/...
Well-advertised frontal system should begin to approach Wed
night, with increasing PoP for snow throughout to start. Light
accumulations expected, with either side of an inch most places
and perhaps closer to 2 inches well inland west of the Hudson.
As temps warm aloft expect a transition to mixed precip, with 
some light freezing rain on top of this snow late in NE NJ. 
Temps sfc/aloft warm further daytime Thu, with a change to plain
rain during the morning hours, but not before a period of 
possible freezing rain for interior NE NJ and the lower Hudson 
Valley mainly along/NW of I-287 early Thu AM. Rain Thu afternoon
should taper off Thu eve, with dry cond returning for late Thu 
night into Sat AM as strong high pressure moves across. 

Another frontal system will approach this weekend, beginning Sat 
afternoon and continuing into Sunday. Once again, with warmer 
air intruding aloft at first and then at the sfc, p-type 
initially should be all snow, with a change to mixed precip late
Sat night into Sunday AM and all rain by Sunday afternoon. This
system may have better potential for widespread advy snow/ice 
amts given higher forecast QPF.

&&

.AVIATION /12Z MONDAY THROUGH FRIDAY/...
A warm front will lift north of the area today. A cold front 
will move across late tonight. 

For today: gradual improvement to VFR from current cond 
expected next 2-3 hours at KSWF/KHPN/KBDR/KGON this morning. 
Some lower cigs may pass by the NYC metro area this afternoon 
but think they will remain VFR. Light W-WSW winds should become 
SW-S 5-10 kt this afternoon. 

For tonight: WSW winds aloft increase ahead of an approaching 
cold front, and LLWS is likely from about 03Z-08Z with speeds 
45-50 kt at FL020. S-SW sfc winds 5-10 kt expected until fropa 
late tonight, and the onshore flow could promote fog development
along the coast. Attm have forecast prevailing MVFR and tempo 
IFR only for KISP, but the fog could be more widespread with 
IFR/LIFR vsby and also impact KBDR/KGON/KJFK. 

...NY Metro (KEWR/KLGA/KJFK/KTEB) TAF Uncertainty...

No unscheduled AMD expected attm. Cannot rule out some MVFR/IFR
vsby restrictions late this evening at KJFK. 

.OUTLOOK FOR 06Z TUESDAY THROUGH FRIDAY... 

Tuesday: VFR. NW winds 15G20-25kt into the evening. 

Wednesday: VFR. 

Wednesday night: MVFR or lower cond in light snow, mixing with
sleet late, also rain at KEWR/KJFK. 

Thursday: MVFR or lower cond as precip changes to freezing
rain/sleet and then rain at KSWF, and to plain rain elsewhere.
SW winds G20kt mainly in the afternoon. 

Thursday night: Rain ending. W winds G20kt late. 

Friday: VFR. NW winds G20-25kt. 

Detailed information, including hourly TAF wind component
forecasts, can be found at: https:/www.weather.gov/zny/n90

&&

.MARINE...
SCA in effect from 8 PM tonight to 6 AM Tue for the ocean E of 
Fire Island Inlet, for all ocean waters from 6-9 AM Tue, then 
for all waters from from 9 AM-6 PM Tue.

Conditions on the waters remain below small craft advisory
thresholds through this afternoon. Then, conditions increase 
with winds and seas tonight through Tuesday in response to a 
tightening pressure gradient between low pressure well to the 
north and east and high pressure to the north and west. A cold 
front moves across late tonight. 

Ocean seas are first forecast to get SCA level seas along with
gusty SCA winds tonight, east of Fire Island Inlet. Then all
waters reach SCA thresholds for wind gusts Tuesday and probably
much of Tuesday night as well. Conditions return to below SCA
thresholds with weakening pressure gradient on Wednesday as 
high pressure moves overhead.

Increasing long fetch S flow ahead of an approaching frontal
system should bring SCA cond to the ocean waters from Thu into
Thu evening, with seas building to 4-6 ft in the morning and 
then to 5-8 ft at night, along with some 25-kt gusts. Following 
a cold frontal passage late Thu night, winds then shift W then 
NW, with all waters likely to see gusts 25-30 kt. These cond 
improve Fri afternoon on the non ocean waters, then finally on 
the ocean waters by midnight Fri night as winds then seas 
gradually diminish.

&&

.HYDROLOGY...
There are no hydrologic concerns through next weekend.

&&

.OKX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CT...None.
NY...None.
NJ...None.
MARINE...Small Craft Advisory from 9 AM to 6 PM EST Tuesday for ANZ331-
     332-335-338-340-345.
     Small Craft Advisory from 8 PM this evening to 6 PM EST 
     Tuesday for ANZ350-353.
     Small Craft Advisory from 6 AM to 6 PM EST Tuesday for ANZ355.

&&

$$

SYNOPSIS...BG/JM
NEAR TERM...JM
SHORT TERM...JM
LONG TERM...BG
AVIATION...BG
MARINE...BG/JM
HYDROLOGY...BG/JM
