429 
FXUS61 KOKX 030137
AFDOKX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service New York NY
837 PM EST Sun Feb 2 2025

.SYNOPSIS...
A warm front lifts through tonight followed by a cold front on 
Monday night. High pressure returns Tuesday into Wednesday. A 
complex frontal system then approaches late Wednesday and impact 
the area from Wednesday night into Thursday. High pressure will 
return on Friday before another frontal system next weekend.

&&

.NEAR TERM /UNTIL 6 AM MONDAY MORNING/...
Forecast remains on track. The Winter Weather Advisory remains
in effect tonight for interior southern CT. Starting to see 
lift increase across the western half of the area early this 
evening and will continue spreading eastward through the next 
several hours. Precip should begin becoming more widespread 
7-9pm. 

For the Lower Hudson Valley, southern CT and much of northeast 
NJ, this is expected to fall as all snow. For Long Island, 
coastal CT and the NY/NJ metro area, with warming surface and 
boundary layer temps from a southerly flow, precip may start as 
snow and then turn to a wintry mix and or all rain.

The shortwave has had a very subtle strengthening trend across much 
of the guidance over the past several model cycles. This may be the 
reason for the upward trend in QPF. QPF totals were bumped up 
to 0.25 to 0.30 inches over southern CT, with 0.10 to 0.20 
inches elsewhere. With these totals in CT, even being 
conservative with SLRs (10-12:1) would result in around 3 inches
of snow (Advisory criteria) across the interior. For this 
reason, issued an Advisory there. Higher SLRs are not out of the
question as the hi res guidance agreed on a 1-3 hour window 
with strong lift maximized in the DGZ. This would lead to a 
period of moderate snow and snowfall rates close to 1 inch per 
hour. Farther west, across the Lower Hudson Valley, lift is 
weaker and QPF is lower. This is likely a result of the 
orientation and timing of the LLJ. Totals here will be closer to
1-2 inches, with isolated 3 inch amounts.

As the precip tapers off after midnight, the mid levels dry out and 
this may result in a period of lingering patchy freezing drizzle 
across the interior into early Monday morning. Confidence in this is 
low, but will handle this potential if it increases with a Special
Weather Statement.

&&

.SHORT TERM /6 AM MONDAY MORNING THROUGH MONDAY NIGHT/...
The warm front will be north of the area by Monday morning and deep 
W-SW flow will continue ahead of the approaching cold front. 
Temperatures rise and moisture increases with highs in the mid to 
upper 40s. SW flow then picks up Monday evening and the cold frontal 
passage is expected sometime after midnight. At this time, the front 
is expected to go through dry, but some sprinkles can not be ruled 
out. Because the winds stay up all night, went closer to the NBM and 
CONSALL instead of the MOS for lows.

&&

.LONG TERM /TUESDAY THROUGH SUNDAY/...
There has not been too much change with the forecast Tuesday through 
next weekend. A fast zonal flow aloft with several embedded 
shortwaves/frontal systems look to impact the area, one mid to late 
week and another next weekend.

High pressure builds in Tuesday and appears to settle overhead by 
Wednesday morning. The high likely lingers nearby into Wednesday 
evening with the latest guidance slowing down the timing of an 
approaching frontal system. With the lingering surface ridging, have 
lowered precip probabilities during the day on Wednesday with a 
good chance it remains dry during the daytime. 

The model guidance then continues to differ with the evolution of 
the complex frontal system Wednesday night into Thursday.
However, the general idea in the modeling is similar overall with a 
parent low likely tracking to our northwest late Wednesday night 
into Thursday. This will help bring a warm front across the area 
early Thursday before a trailing cold front passes late Thursday or 
Thursday night. Still thinking there will be a brief period of a 
wintry mix Wednesday night, first starting out as some snow and 
sleet then transitioning to freezing rain and rain early Thursday 
morning. The wintry mix will last longest across the interior with 
the NYC metro and Long Island becoming plain rain as the boundary 
layer warms late Wednesday night into Thursday morning. Some 
freezing rain could linger across the interior Thursday morning, 
depending on how quickly the boundary layer can warm up. This will 
be dependent on the strength of the SW flow. Some solutions are 
showing a weaker parent low, which would have a weaker lower level 
flow, and slower timing of scouring out the surface cold air inland. 
The overall pattern however supports warm air aloft helping to bring 
a transition to liquid at some point late Wednesday night or early 
Thursday morning. Little to no accumulation is currently expected 
near the coast with a light snow/sleet accumulation as well as light 
ice accretion inland are possible. These details will become much 
clearer in the next day or so. 

Rain will continue on Thursday and should taper off late in the day 
or night once the cold front passes. Dry conditions will return to 
end the week. Model guidance is in good agreement on another complex 
frontal system for next weekend. The synoptic pattern favors a 
similar set up to the mid week system, but PTYPE details are less 
certain at this time. Generally followed the latest model consensus 
blend for next weekend. 

Temperatures will be up and down through the period due to the fast 
flow. Above normal temperatures Tuesday trend below normal by 
Wednesday. Temperatures should warm back above normal on Thursday 
before dropping below normal to end the week.

&&

.AVIATION /02Z MONDAY THROUGH FRIDAY/...
Weak low pressure passes over the area tonight. A cold front 
approaches from the west on Monday.

As low pressure approaches from the west, cigs will lower from 
MVFR to IFR. Precipitation has mainly been snow across the
terminals north of NYC, however closer to the coast, a wintry
mix of snow, sleet, and rain can be expected. Temperatures are
warm enough at KJFK and KISP for a complete changeover to rain 
expected at KJFK and KISP. The precipitation ends from west to
east between 05-07Z. Any lower cigs will slowly improve back to
VFR around or after 12z.

Winds will remain light and variable for most terminals through
the TAF period. For the NYC terminals, a light SW flow is
expected on Monday.

Snow accumulations expected:

KSWF/KHPN: 2-3 inches. 

KTEB: 1-2 inches.

KBDR/KGON: Around 2 inches.

KEWR: Less than 1 inch. 

KJFK/ISP/KLGA: less than a 1/2 inch.


 ...NY Metro (KEWR/KLGA/KJFK/KTEB) TAF Uncertainty...

Changing p-types expected this evening, especially with onset of
precipitation. 

.OUTLOOK FOR 00z TUESDAY THROUGH FRIDAY... 

Monday night: VFR. 

Tuesday: VFR with NW flow 20-30kt. 

Wednesday: VFR with light winds. 

Thursday: MVFR or lower possible in rain or a wintry mix.

Friday: VFR with NW flow.

Detailed information, including hourly TAF wind component forecasts, 
can be found at: https:/www.weather.gov/zny/n90

&&

.MARINE...
Sub-Small Craft Advisory conditions are expected tonight through 
Monday. Southwesterly flow then increases ahead of a cold front 
Monday night and wind gusts may reach 25 kt on the eastern ocean 
waters as well as seas reaching 5 ft. Confidence is low and current 
forecast calls for only marginal SCA conditions so will hold off on 
SCA with this cycle. 

Marginal SCA conditions are possible on the ocean on Tuesday with 
conditions below SCA Tuesday night into Wednesday. The next chance 
at SCA conditions will be Wednesday night through Thursday as a 
complex frontal system impacts the waters. Elevated oceans to SCA 
levels may then continue into Friday.

&&

.HYDROLOGY...
There are no hydrologic concerns through next weekend.

&&

.OKX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CT...Winter Weather Advisory until 7 AM EST Monday for CTZ005>008.
NY...None.
NJ...None.
MARINE...None.

&&

$$

SYNOPSIS...DS/JT
NEAR TERM...DS/JT
SHORT TERM...JT
LONG TERM...DS
AVIATION...BC
MARINE...DS/JT
HYDROLOGY...DS/JT
