925 
FXUS61 KOKX 282055 CCA
AFDOKX

Area Forecast Discussion...CORRECTED
National Weather Service New York NY
455 PM EDT Mon Apr 28 2025

.SYNOPSIS...
High pressure overhead will shift offshore tonight. A cold front 
approaches from the west late Tuesday and passes through Wednesday
morning. High pressure then returns for Wednesday and Thursday 
before another frontal system impacts the area Thursday night 
through Saturday. High pressure builds in for the end of the 
weekend into early next week.

&&

.NEAR TERM /UNTIL 6 AM TUESDAY MORNING/...
High pressure continues to be in control through tonight as it 
shifts offshore to the south. A light S/SW flow will develop tonight 
and increase into Tuesday morning. Dry and clear conditions are 
expected tonight with low temperatures generally in the upper 40s to 
low 50s, though the NYC metro may not drop out of the middle 50s. 

&&

.SHORT TERM /6 AM TUESDAY MORNING THROUGH TUESDAY NIGHT/...
High pressure remains offshore to the southeast on Tuesday. This 
will allow for generally clear to mostly clear skies much of the day 
with dry conditions. A large frontal system over the Great Lakes is 
poised to move well north of the area, dragging a cold front through 
the area by the evening. Ahead of this frontal system, the pressure 
gradient tightens as the frontal system approaches the high pressure 
offshore. This will allow for an increased SW flow through the day 
with gusts over the area anywhere from 20-30 mph. 

High temperatures are expected to be in the upper 70s to middle 80s 
for the Lower Hudson Valley, NE NJ, the NYC metro, and portions of 
extreme SW CT. Elsewhere along the coast, a S/SW flow off the 
relatively cool ocean will prevent high temperatures from rising 
past the upper 60s to low 70s.

Given the deep mixing expected through the day for the warmest 
aforementioned areas, dew points are expected to remain in the 40s, 
despite a persistent SW flow. This deeper mixing and warm 
temperatures will cause RH values to possible reach 25-40%. This dry 
air combined with potentially gusty winds may allow for the elevated 
risk of fire spread. As such, collaborated an SPS for the Lower 
Hudson Valley and CT to address this potential.

Clouds increase from west to east late afternoon with the approach 
of the frontal system. Any convection well to the west of the area 
is expected to rapidly diminish in intensity and coverage by the 
time it reaches the area, though some residual showers or possibly 
even a thunderstorm remains possible for portions of the Lower 
Hudson Valley, mainly between 8-11PM. The front moves through 
overnight Tuesday and into early Wednesday morning, but should be a 
fairly dry passage. Lows Tuesday night are expected to be in the 
middle 50s to low 60s, fairly warm for this time of year.

&&

.LONG TERM /WEDNESDAY THROUGH MONDAY/...
Still seeing some flip flopping in regards to the timing of the
frontal system at the end of the week. This is noted in the 12Z
operational runs where the cold front slows up on Saturday with
the potential for frontal wave development. The faster trend 
24h ago for Saturday has now has revered itself. Bottom line, 
Pac energy is still offshore. The latter of which interacts 
with an upper low over the Four Corners region at the beginning 
of the period. Thus, the uncertainty.

At the start of the period, surface high pressure builds in 
behind the departing cold front Wednesday morning. High pressure
remains in control through most of Thursday. At the same time,
the upper trough begins to amplify over the Mississippi Valley
as multiple streams interact with one another. This will allow
backing of the upper flow and the warm front to lift north
across the area Thursday night. Area will then be in the warm-
sectored on Friday. Low pressure tracking across eastern Canada
sends the cold front across the area Friday night into Saturday
with potential frontal wave development delaying its eastward 
progression. So there are good chances for showers/possible 
thunderstorms from Thursday night into Saturday. Right now 
there is a low probability of severe weather. QPF looks modest, 
under an inch outside any localized convective maxima. However, 
with the slowing of the boundary this will have to be watched.

Wednesday remains unseasonably warm in the 70s as cold advection
lags behind the cold front. Expect seasonable temperatures on 
Thursday, highs in the 60s and lower 70s. Region then is warm 
sectored Friday, setting up one of the warmest days this week. 
Temperatures away from maritime influence, generally west of the
Hudson River, likely climb into the upper 70s and lower 80s, 
with potential for mid 80s. Cooler along the immediate coast 
with onshore southerly flow, closer to 70. The region falls back
to a more typical air mass for the time of year over the 
weekend into early next week.

&&

.AVIATION /20Z MONDAY THROUGH SATURDAY/...
High pressure settles slides offshore tonight. A warm front 
approaches late Tuesday afternoon into Tuesday evening.

VFR thru TAF period.

Winds back more to the SW late this evening, especially at immediate 
coastal terminals, with speeds remaining around or under 10 kt. 
General light SW flow then continues overnight, before speeds 
increase into mid to late Tuesday AM, with gusts 20 to 25 kt 
developing by afternoon.

 ...NY Metro (KEWR/KLGA/KJFK/KTEB) TAF Uncertainty...

Timing of wind shift into early this evening for KLGA and 
KTEB could be 1-2 hours off from TAF.

.OUTLOOK FOR 18Z TUESDAY THROUGH SATURDAY...

Tuesday afternoon / night: VFR Tuesday afternoon, and mostly VFR 
Tuesday night. Slight chance of MVFR with showers later at night. SW 
wind gusts 20 to 25 kt afternoon and at night.

Wednesday: VFR. W-NW wind gusts around 20 kt mainly during the 
morning and early afternoon, winds lighter later in the afternoon.

Thursday: VFR during day. MVFR or lower possible with a chance of 
showers and slight chance of thunderstorms at night. 

Friday: MVFR or lower possible with a chance of showers. Slight 
chance of thunderstorms. SW wind gusts 15-20 kt afternoon into early 
evening.

Saturday: MVFR possible in rain / showers.

Detailed information, including hourly TAF wind component forecasts, 
can be found at: https:/www.weather.gov/zny/n90

&&

.MARINE...
Sub-SCA conditions are expected through tonight. Wind picks up on 
Tuesday ahead of a frontal system allowing for gusts to 25-30kt on 
all waters by the afternoon. SCAs are in effect for all waters 
through at least Tuesday evening. Winds drop below SCA conditions 
overnight Tuesday, though SCA conditions due lingering seas 
may continue into Wednesday morning on the ocean. High pressure
then builds across the waters into Thursday with sub-SCA conditions.
A strengthening southerly flow ahead of the next frontal system
may bring a period of SCA conditions on the ocean Friday into 
Friday night, with wind gusts up to 25 kt and seas 5 to 6 ft.

&&

.FIRE WEATHER...
Dry conditions with the combination of low relative humidity values 
between 25 and 40 percent and frequent wind gusts of 25 to 30 mph 
will create an elevated risk for fire spread on Tuesday.

&&

.HYDROLOGY...
There are no hydrologic concerns through the forecast period.

&&

.TIDES/COASTAL FLOODING...
Astronomically high tides will couple with a modest SW flow to 
allow water levels to approach or just exceed minor flood 
thresholds in the more vulnerable locales of coastal Nassau, 
Queens, and Fairfield during times of high tide early this week.

A Coastal Flood Statement is in effect for this evening's high 
tide cycle in the above mentioned areas, with up to a half foot
of inundation possible. There is potential for an additional 
statement once again Tuesday evening.

&&

.OKX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CT...None.
NY...None.
NJ...None.
MARINE...Small Craft Advisory from noon Tuesday to 2 AM EDT Wednesday 
     for ANZ331-332-335-338-340-345.
     Small Craft Advisory from noon Tuesday to 6 AM EDT Wednesday 
     for ANZ350-353-355.

&&

$$

SYNOPSIS...DW/MW
NEAR TERM...MW
SHORT TERM...MW
LONG TERM...DW
AVIATION...JE
MARINE...DW/MW
FIRE WEATHER...
HYDROLOGY...DW/MW
TIDES/COASTAL FLOODING...
