074 
FXUS61 KOKX 200805
AFDOKX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service New York NY
405 AM EDT Sun Apr 20 2025

.SYNOPSIS...
A cold front pushes well south of the area tonight. High 
pressure builds in tonight and gradually slides east on Monday. 
A weak frontal system moves through through Monday night into 
Tuesday. Weak high pressure builds into the region Wednesday and
Thursday. Another frontal system is expected to affect the area
Friday into the weekend.

&&

.NEAR TERM /UNTIL 6 AM THIS MORNING/...
Key Messages: 

* Much cooler but still above normal temps today (Highs in the 
  lower to upper 60s).

* Elevated threat for wildfire spread across the Tri-State today. 
  SPS in effect for southern CT and southeastern NY for today.  

* Patchy frosty for portions of E LI and coastal central and 
  southeastern CT tonight, where growing season has started.

Vigorous northern stream closed low slides east from Quebec and 
through the Canadian Maritimes today into tonight, while southern 
upper ridging builds back towards the region tonight. At the 
surface, a cold front pushes well south of the region this AM, 
with weak Canadian high pressure building in Sunday Night and 
sliding east on Monday. 

Overall gusty NW winds 15-20G25-30mph, drier and much cooler conds 
expected today. Temps will still run several degrees above normal 
with unseasonably mild start to the day and deep mixing and plenty 
of sunshine in a gradual caa regime. Continued close to NBM 
50th percentile for temps based on the above, which has a 
better representation of warmer temps along the coast in NW flow
than the NBM deterministic. Temps in the lower to mid 60s 
interior and mid to upper 60s for city/coast. NBM deterministic 
max T are generally running in the lowest 25th quartile, which 
appears low based on synoptic regime.

Canadian high pressure noses in tonight with potential for good 
radiational cooling conds for pine barrens of LI and interior Tri-
State with temps dropping into the lower to mid 30s and bringing 
patchy frost conditions. Not enough frost coverage across 
coastal areas where growing season has started to issue frost 
headline. Elsewhere, temps dropping into the 40s for the 
city/coast.

&&

.SHORT TERM /6 AM THIS MORNING THROUGH 6 PM MONDAY/...
Key Messages: 

* Below seasonable temperatures on Monday, giving way to well above 
  seasonable temps on Tuesday.

* Light rainfall event Monday Night. 

A vigorous closed upper low over the SW US lifts through the central 
plains today and into the upper Great Lakes on Monday, and then
opens up and slides east through Ontario/Quebec on 
Tuesday/Tuesday Night. At the surface, a resultant low pressure
system takes a similar track, sliding NE through the Great 
Lakes on Monday and then across southern Ontario/Quebec into 
Northern New England Tuesday into Tuesday Night. Locally, its 
associated warm front approaches Monday Night, followed by 
occluded/cold front crossing late Monday Night into Tue AM.

A strengthening return SE flow develops Monday as high pressure 
slides offshore. Maritime flow off mid 40 degree waters, and 
developing/ne advecting stratus under a strong low-level inversion, 
will likely result in temps running a few degrees below seasonable 
across the region on Monday (mid 50s along southern and eastern
coasts to around 60 interior). NBM deterministic, generally in 
the lowest 25th quartile, looks good based on above.

LLJ will strengthen ahead of approaching frontal system, with warm 
front approaching and entering the region Monday Night. Modest theta-
e advection and lift over this boundary will bring potential for 
scattered showers Monday Night. Limited forcing and moisture,
and lack of instability, will keep QPF light. Warm front likely
lifts north of most of the area late Monday Night, before weak 
occluded/cold front crosses Tues AM. 

Drying conditions Tuesday in wake of cold front. Sct cu 
development likely Tuesday aft with shortwave moving through to 
the north and secondary cold front approaching. Otherwise deep 
mixing and still mild 850mb temps(7-10C), will likely result in 
unseasonably warm temps areawide (mid to upper 70s) on gusty 
westerly flow. Temps could challenge the daily record high for 
KISP. Southern and eastern coastal areas could be well into the 
70s (warmer than current forecast) as well if westerly flow 
materializes as modeled. Will side towards 50-75th percentile 
NBM based on downslope flow regime. Once again, NBM 
deterministic max T are generally running in the lowest 25th 
quartile, which appears low based on above. 

Weak cold front sags south of the region Tuesday Night. With mixed 
low-levels and little change in airmass, continued mild
conditions likely with lows in the mid to upper 40s for much of
the area, lower 50s NYC/NJ metro.

&&

.LONG TERM /MONDAY NIGHT THROUGH SATURDAY/...
No significant changes in the long term and stuck fairly close to 
the previous forecast/NBM.

Dry weather is expected Wednesday through Thursday night with mostly 
sunny to partly cloudy skies under weak high pressure. 

The high moves east on Friday, with another shortwave/low pressure 
system approaching for late Friday into Saturday. Mainly looking at 
just chance POPs (30-35 percent) for now. Drier weather returns for 
Sunday.

&&

.AVIATION /08Z SUNDAY THROUGH THURSDAY/...
High pressure builds into the area today. 

VFR.

NW-NW winds 8-12kt to start. Winds will increase this morning and 
will generally be 15-20 kt with gusts 25-30 kt in the morning. Winds 
gradually weaken in the afternoon with gusts likely ending by 
evening. 

 ...NY Metro (KEWR/KLGA/KJFK/KTEB) TAF Uncertainty...

An occasional higher gust will be possible.

.OUTLOOK FOR 06Z MONDAY THROUGH THURSDAY...

Sunday Night: VFR. 

Monday: VFR, then MVFR or lower possible at night with a chance of 
showers.

Tuesday: Mainly VFR. Chance of showers early. SW wind gusts 15-20 kt 
possible. 

Wednesday and Thursday: VFR.

Detailed information, including hourly TAF wind component forecasts, 
can be found at: https:/www.weather.gov/zny/n90

&&

.MARINE...
SCA gusts expected mainly on nearshore waters today, while SCA ocean 
seas (due to residual southerly swell) slowly subside through early 
afternoon.  

Sub SCA conditions expected on all water this evening, continuing 
thru Monday afternoon as high pressure moves across the waters. 

Marginal SCA conditions possible on the ocean waters Monday Night 
into Tuesday morning with frontal passage, but latest trend has been 
slightly weaker with winds and waves.

Otherwise, conditions will remain below SCA levels Tuesday afternoon 
through Friday with a relatively weak pressure gradient over the 
waters.

&&

.FIRE WEATHER...
Dry conditions continue, with only spotty wetting rain across 
Orange and Putnam counties yesterday, elsewhere little if any 
rainfall.

Elevated wildfire spread threat exists today with highs in the 60s, 
northwest winds of 15-20G25-30 mph and min RH values in the lower to 
mid 20 percent range.

SPS for elevated threat of fire spread has been coordinated for
southeastern NY and CT with state land and fire management 
partners and neighboring offices. Coordination on fuel 
conditions and possible fire weather headlines will be conducted
with NJ state land and fire management partners later this 
morning. 

&&

.HYDROLOGY...
There are no hydrologic issues through next week.

&&

.OKX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CT...None.
NY...None.
NJ...None.
MARINE...Small Craft Advisory until 6 PM EDT this evening for ANZ331-
     332-335-338-340-345-350-353-355.

&&

$$

SYNOPSIS...BC/NV
NEAR TERM...NV
SHORT TERM...NV
LONG TERM...BC/NV
AVIATION...BC
MARINE...BC/NV
FIRE WEATHER...NV
HYDROLOGY...BC/NV
