466 
FXUS61 KOKX 040815
AFDOKX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service New York NY
415 AM EDT Sun May 4 2025

.SYNOPSIS...
Frontal boundary shifts farther north into early today. It is 
expected to stay to the north of Long Island through tonight. The 
frontal boundary eventually moves farther south within the region 
Monday into Tuesday. The system will then pass through on 
Wednesday, with a cold front passing through on Thursday. The 
area will then remain between high pressure to the west and low 
pressure developing east of New England on Friday. The low 
should slowly pull away from New England on Saturday. 

&&

.NEAR TERM /UNTIL 6 PM THIS EVENING/...
Mainly dry through this morning. Low clouds and fog possible into 
daybreak for some locations. Higher chance of showers this
afternoon. Only weak instability this afternoon so only have a 
slight chance thunderstorms where the models show this 
instability, which is within the western half of the region.

SE winds stabilize surface layer with cooler temperatures overall. 
However, noting temperatures a little above MOS initially so went 
with NBM for the high temperature forecast which seems plausible 
given sufficient diurnal warming this morning into early afternoon 
before more showers develop. Upper 60s to lower 70s for the high 
temperature forecast for most locations but relatively cooler along 
the southern half of Long Island and NYC, which are more in the 
low to mid 60s.

&&

.SHORT TERM /6 PM THIS EVENING THROUGH TUESDAY NIGHT/...
Cutoff upper level low continues to approach from the west.
Continued southerly lower to upper level flow will be parallel.
Omega increases. 

With synoptic lift increasing and some time periods where there
will be more elevated instability, especially Monday night
through Tuesday, there will be more coverage of showers and
thunderstorms. 

Tonight showers continue but not expecting too much heavy
rainfall. Instability lowering so no thunderstorms tonight.
There will be more low clouds and fog. Uncertain how dense or
extensive the fog gets. Kept fog with patchy coverage. Less rain
than forecast will probably lead to more extent of fog and
increase the possibility for some dense fog for some locations.

Monday is when the rain showers become more widespread and this
is expected to continue Monday night through Tuesday.
Combination of highest synoptic forcing and relatively more
instability will lead to a greater chance for heavy rain as well
especially for any thunderstorms that develop. Parallel flow
from lower to upper levels will lead to training of convection
allowing for multiple rounds of heavy showers and thunderstorms.

Synoptic forcing decreases Tuesday night with highest positive
vorticity advection areas shifting east of the area as upper
level low center moves in. Low levels not expected to be as
unstable also, so less heavy rain potential. However, still have
rain showers in the forecast.

Regarding temperatures, for tonight used a combination of MAV
and MET MOS as well as the NBM. Then blended in more raw data
for Monday through Tuesday night as diurnal temperature
differences become smaller. 

&&

.LONG TERM /WEDNESDAY THROUGH SATURDAY/...
Upper level low and weak sfc reflection pass through on Wed with 
chance of showers. An upper trough digging SE from Ontario and 
Quebec in their wake will send a cold front through on Thu with 
another chance for showers. The trough is progged to close off over 
the Northeast Fri into Sat, with a developing weak sfc low SE of 
Long Island on Fri pivoting to E of New England. With the upper low 
and associated cold pool aloft/low level cyclonic flow have partly 
cloudy skies and slight chance for showers for both Fri/Sat. 

Above normal temps on Wed should return to near normal on Thu and a 
few deg below normal on Fri. Temps on Sat could moderate to a few 
deg above normal, but this will depend on how quickly the upper low 
pulls away on Sat. If slower to exit temps on Sat could be more 
similar to those fcst for Fri. 

&&

.AVIATION /08Z SUNDAY THROUGH THURSDAY/...
Frontal boundary shifts north into early today. A lull in the rain 
shower activity expected until late this morning. Then more rain 
showers develop and gradually make their way farther east within the 
region this afternoon into tonight.

Mainly VFR conditions through this morning although there is 
forecast to be some localized MVFR to LIFR conditions. MVFR chances 
with increasing chance of rain showers this afternoon. Higher chance 
of IFR and localized LIFR tonight.

Winds remain southerly through today and then become more easterly 
tonight. Wind speeds vary from near 5 kts to near 15 kts. Some gusts 
can be expected to near 20 kt at times although this is not expected 
to be widespread. Wind speeds tonight lower to less than 10 kts.

 ...NY Metro (KEWR/KLGA/KJFK/KTEB) TAF Uncertainty...

Possible MVFR to IFR this morning. Amendments possible.

Amendments likely to refine timing of showers and thunderstorms.

.OUTLOOK FOR 09Z MONDAY THROUGH THURSDAY...

Monday: Showers likely with MVFR or lower expected. A chance of
tstms mainly at night. E winds G15-20kt. 

Tuesday: Showers with MVFR or lower expected. A chance of  
thunderstorms. SE winds G15-20kt day into early eve possible.

Wednesday: Chance of MVFR or lower with a slight chance of 
showers/thunderstorms.

Thursday: VFR.

Detailed information, including hourly TAF wind component
forecasts, can be found at: https:/www.weather.gov/zny/n90

&&

.MARINE...
SCA conditions on the ocean due to elevated seas near 5 ft.
These will subside into early this morning. Expecting all waters
to remain below SCA after 6am this morning and through Monday
morning. Thereafter, SCA potential increases through Tuesday
night on the ocean as forecast seas reach near 5 to 6 ft at 
times.

Quiet for Wed/Thu with winds/seas below SCA thresholds.

&&

.HYDROLOGY...
Marginal flash flood risk for much of the area through early
this week. Hourly rain rates at times could reach near 1 inch in
1 hour. Isolated flash flooding possible.

Total rainfall forecast from this afternoon through Tuesday
evening is near 2 to 3.5 inches. Locally higher amounts will be
possible. 

Current forecast shows enough time period to keep flash flood
risk marginal. Would expect a relatively greater chance of minor
nuisance flooding in the low lying, urban, and other poor
drainage areas.

No hydrologic concerns mid to late this week.

&&

.OKX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CT...None.
NY...None.
NJ...None.
MARINE...Small Craft Advisory until 6 AM EDT early this morning for 
     ANZ350-353-355.

&&

$$

SYNOPSIS...BG/JM
NEAR TERM...JM
SHORT TERM...JM
LONG TERM...BG
AVIATION...JM
MARINE...BG/JM
HYDROLOGY...BG/JM
