722 
FXUS61 KOKX 150538
AFDOKX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service New York NY
138 AM EDT Sun Jun 15 2025

.SYNOPSIS...
High pressure will build in from the northeast as a frontal 
wave passes east tonight. The high will continue to influence 
the area into early next week as it works slowly out into the 
North Atlantic. A warm front begins to approach on Tuesday and 
passes through on Wednesday. A cold front then follows for 
Thursday night. High pressure then takes control for Friday and 
Saturday with only a weak cold front passing through Friday 
night.

&&

.NEAR TERM /THROUGH TODAY/...
The steady light rain has ended, but there could be a few 
pockets of light rain or sprinkles overnight. Will maintain a 
slight chance of light rain and/or sprinkles. High pressure 
centered near Nova Scotia will build into the area tonight 
behind the departing low. This will bring in some drier through 
the night. This should keep Father's Day dry, but with plenty of
cloudy clover. Model time height cross sections show mid level 
dry air with deep moisture below 700 mb. There could be enough 
drying for some peaks of sun in the afternoon across eastern CT 
and eastern LI.

Lows tonight will in the mid to upper 50s for much of the area,
but around 60 for the NYC metro. Highs Sunday will be in the 60s
to around 70. Stayed with the warmer NBM as locations on Saturday
overachieved for those locations where the rain stopped. Airmass
should be very similar, minus the rain.

&&

.SHORT TERM /TONIGHT THROUGH 6 PM MONDAY/...
Weak high pressure will remain in control even as the center
of the high gradually works east out into the North Atlantic. 
There will remain plenty of low-level moisture with mostly 
cloudy conditions lingering for all but eastern LI and SE CT, 
where there could be breaks in the cloud cover. A weak easterly 
flow will continue as well with high pressure across the area 
and a stalled frontal boundary to the south over the Mid 
Atlantic states.

Lows Sunday night will change little in the mid to upper 50s,
except around 60 for the NYC metro. Highs Monday will begin 
there gradual uptick heading into the upcoming week, around 70 
for most locations.

&&

.LONG TERM /MONDAY NIGHT THROUGH SATURDAY/...
Weak riding aloft Monday night into Tuesday as the h5 flow gets 
amplified by a shortwave shifting in to the Ohio Valley. Most of the 
time is expected to be dry as the mean ridging aloft should help 
offset any subtle PVA, but left in a slight chance of an afternoon 
shower across the western half of the forecast area as per NBM. The 
warm front then moves through during the day Wednesday with rain 
chances for both Tuesday night due to lift ahead of the front, and 
for Wednesday with frontal passage itself, followed by increasing 
instability later in the day.

Global models still disagree regarding when of an amplifying h5 
trough axis shifts through within the Thursday night-Friday time 
frame. GFS has slowed down noticeably in this regard over the past 
24 hours, with ECMWF and Canadian more consistently showing the axis 
shifting through during Friday morning. Not surprisingly, LREF 
ensemble clusters therefore lean toward the EPS/CMCE camp over GEFS. 
Associated cold front is therefore still slated for a Thursday night 
passage, but before then, a pre-frontal trough may act as a focus 
for convective initiation in an increasingly unstable air mass. As 
such, NBM has expanded likely PoPs (60-70%) into most of the Lower 
Hudson Valley and adjacent spots for Thursday afternoon/early 
evening. Potential shear and CAPE would lead to the chance of at 
least strong thunderstorms. Too early in the game to have much 
confidence in the severe wx potential, but something to watch. 
Leaned more toward the 25th percentile NBM for highs on Thursday for 
most spots, which is still warmer than the deterministic numbers. h8 
temps progged at 18-19C without too much convective debris should 
allow for low-mid 90s in the typically warmest spots. This coupled 
with dewpoints around 70 could have some heat impacts.

High pressure would then be the dominant feature for Friday and 
Saturday with only perhaps a weak cold front or trough moving 
through during Friday night. Cold pool aloft on Friday could help 
trigger an isolated afternoon shower or thunderstorm. High 
temperatures both days in the 80s and about 3-5 degrees above
normal.

&&

.AVIATION /06Z SUNDAY THROUGH THURSDAY/...
A stationary front will remain to the south of the terminals 
through Sunday night. High pressure builds towards the 
terminals from the northeast through Sunday, and remains Sunday
night.

MVFR through the TAF period at the NYC metro terminals and east,
except becoming VFR at KGON mid morning. MVFR, becoming VFR at
KBDR and KSWF by midday, with timing uncertain, depending how
quickly high pressure builds in from the northeast. There is a
chance that the NYC metro terminals briefly become VFR late
Sunday afternoon into the early evening, however, confidence is
low.

There is a chance of light rain at the NYC metro terminals this
morning with no impacts to visibilities or ceilings.

NE winds around 10 kt or less through the TAF period. 

    NY Metro (KEWR/KLGA/KJFK/KTEB) TAF Uncertainty...

Improvement to VFR possible late Sunday afternoon into the early
evening.


.OUTLOOK FOR 06Z MONDAY THROUGH THURSDAY... 

Late Sunday Night: MVFR, except VFR likely at KGON and KSWF.

Monday: MVFR possible.

Tuesday: Mainly VFR. slight chance of showers late day into the
night, with a chance of MVFR to IFR.

Wednesday - Thursday: Mostly VFR. A chance of showers and 
thunderstorms, mainly in the afternoon and evening.

Detailed information, including hourly TAF wind component forecasts, 
can be found at: https:/www.weather.gov/zny/n90

&&

.MARINE...
SCA remains up for the ocean waters tonight with NE flow at 15
to 20 kt and gusts up to 25 kt. Seas will build to around 5 ft.
The flow relaxes some the second half of the night. It is
possible that 5 ft seas linger a bit longer into Sunday morning.
Confidence remains low. Otherwise, sub SCA conditions expected 
through Monday.

Winds and seas remain below SCA levels across all waters Monday 
night through at least Thursday morning. SW winds pick up in the 
afternoon ahead of a cold front, with gusts possibly up to 25 kt on 
the ocean - lasting into the evening. Ocean seas could reach 5 ft 
Thursday night into Friday.

&&

.HYDROLOGY...
No hydrologic impacts expected through the end of the week.

Next chance for impacts would be Thursday into Thursday night with 
scattered thunderstorms. The airmass is moist, but the anticipated 
speed of the cells would mitigate potential rain amounts. With that 
said, there's still the potential of at least minor urban/poor 
drainage flooding.

&&

.TIDES/COASTAL FLOODING...
There is a moderate rip current risk at ocean beaches on Sunday
with an E-SE wave component around 4 ft at 6s. The rip current
risk is low on Monday and the E-SE wave component subsides to
around 3 ft at 7s.

&&

.OKX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CT...None.
NY...None.
NJ...None.
MARINE...Small Craft Advisory until 6 AM EDT early this morning for 
     ANZ350-353-355.

&&

$$

SYNOPSIS...JC/DW
NEAR TERM...DS/DW
SHORT TERM...DW
LONG TERM...JC
AVIATION...MET
MARINE...JC/DW
HYDROLOGY...JC/DW
TIDES/COASTAL FLOODING...
