548 
FXUS61 KOKX 010040
AFDOKX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service New York NY
740 PM EST Tue Dec 31 2024

.SYNOPSIS...
Developing low pressure will approach from the southwest this 
evening, pass over the area late tonight, then move along the 
eastern New England coast Wednesday into Wednesday evening and 
into eastern Canada late Wednesday night into Thursday. A cold 
front moves through Friday night. Weak high pressure builds in 
for the weekend. An area of low pressure passes to the south 
early next week.

&&

.NEAR TERM /UNTIL 6 AM WEDNESDAY MORNING/...
*Two to four hour period of locally heavy rain and embedded 
 thunderstorms to ring in the New year

A strong, negatively-tilted upper trough will lift through the 
Northeast tonight. This will induce secondary cyclogenesis along
its associated warm front over the DelMarVa this evening. The
low is expected to track over or just south of the local Tri- 
State tonight. 

Expect shower activity to increase from SW/NE between 6pm and 8pm 
this evening. A 2 to 4 hr period of moderate to locally heavy 
rain with embedded thunderstorm activity likely between 8pm and 
2am immediately ahead of and southeast of the developing low. 
Rainfall rates of generally 1/4" to 1/2" for a 2 to 4 hr period,
with brief peak rates of 3/4" to 1" possible with any training 
convection. Minor urban and poor drainage flooding possible. 

12z Fcst soundings have trended slightly higher with elevated 
instability (MUCAPE) above a sfc-based inversion, as well as 
CAPE in the -10C to -30C region, to strengthen potential for 
isolated thunderstorms across NE NJ, NYC and western Long 
Island. Only slight chance thunder fcst for most areas 
north/east of there. Small hail and winds gusts to 40 mph 
possible with any isolated stronger thunderstorms. 

Severe tstms are not expected based on consensus low pressure
track and with modest low-level inversion, but a further NW jog
of low pressure would introduce less than a 5% risk of damaging
winds gusts and less than a 2% tor risk (within 25 miles of a 
point) into southern portions of NYC/NJ metro and LI. Very low 
prob of this occurring.

Timing for rain in the NYC metro area still looks to be about 00Z-
07Z, and an hour or two later to the north/east. Peak timing of
thunder from 02z to 06z in the NYC metro area, and an hour or 
two later to the north/east

In Addison, nose of 35 to 40 kt LLJ slides across coastal areas
this evening, with a few hours of peak SE winds of 15 to 20 mph
gusts 25 to 30 mph ahead of low/occluded front.

Rain tapers to isolated shower activity from west to east 
between 5z and 9z in wake of occluded front/low pressure, but 
still under deep cyclonic flow. Generally light westerly flow 
in wake of front overnight and weak CAA, with temps remaining 
well above seasonable in the 40s.

&&

.SHORT TERM /6 AM WEDNESDAY MORNING THROUGH THURSDAY/...
Deep troughing continues across the northeast US thru the period, 
with lead shortwave sliding east Wed AM, and trailing shortwave
approaching Wed aft and crossing Wed eve. At the surface, 
coastal low pressure departs up the New England coast on Wed, 
with secondary cold front crossing the region Wed aft.

The pressure gradient tightens in the wake of the deepening and 
departing low Wed AM. W winds should pick up beginning Wed AM, 
with strongest winds in wake of cold front/trough Wed aft/eve 
with 20 to 30 gusts 45 to 55 mph. Gradient remains strong 
overnight, with winds 45-50 kt at top of mixed layer, but with 
lapse rates weakening a bit overnight, peak wind gusts will 
likely remain capped at 45 to 50 mph into Thu AM. Pressure 
gradient appears to remain tight into Thu aft as low pressure 
deepens over northern Maine/new Brunswick, with winds at top of 
mixed layer 45-50 kt in a steeper mixing profile. This should 
support resurgence of westerly 45-55 mph wind gust threat into 
the afternoon. Wind advisory to address hazard for Wed aft into
Thu eve.

Considerable cloud cover in cyclonic flow, with scattered rain 
shower likely Wed aft/eve with shortwave/cold frontal passage. With 
cold advection behind front, a few snow showers possible at tail 
end across interior, particularly higher elevations. 

Mild conditions on Wed with nearly stationary highs in the upper 
40s/lower 50s giving way to cold advection late Wed aft into 
into Thu. Low temps in the lower/mid 30s Wed night, and high 
temps in the upper 30s/lower 40s on Thu. Windchills in the 20s
Wed Night thru Thu.

&&

.LONG TERM /THURSDAY NIGHT THROUGH TUESDAY/...
Key points include cold/blustery/mainly dry conditions until 
potentially early next week, with chances of snow. Uncertainty is 
high for early next week with resulting wide ranges of snowfall 
forecasts. Temperatures forecast to become more below normal through 
the weekend. The gusty winds will make it feel about ten degrees 
colder than the actual temperatures regarding the forecast high 
temperatures.

Mid level quasi-zonal flow Thursday night into Friday. A longwave 
trough moves over the Eastern Seaboard late Friday, with the trough 
axis moving offshore late Friday night. A surface cold front is 
expected to move through Friday night. However, it looks to do so 
mainly dry. Thereafter, weak high pressure builds in at the surface 
as the trough departs for the remainder of the weekend, keeping the 
area dry. A southern stream trough approaches Sunday night with a 
weak area of low pressure from the central or south central US 
(given some uncertainty), and passes south of the area Monday night 
into Tuesday. Current model consensus it to take this low south of 
the area late Monday into Monday night. The area could see some snow 
on the northern fringes of this system, but there is still a great 
deal of uncertainty this far out, and stuck pretty close to the NBM.

Temperatures should average below normal through the period.

&&

.AVIATION /00Z WEDNESDAY THROUGH SUNDAY/...
A deepening frontal wave will move across the area from late
this evening into the early morning hours. 

Conditions will quickly deteriorate to MVFR/IFR over the next
few hours as moderate to occasionally heavy rain moves across 
the area. A few thunderstorms are possible as well, generally 
between 02-05Z. A period of LLWS is also expected late this 
evening with SE winds near 40-45 kt at 2kft. Conditions then 
gradually begin to improve during the day on Wednesday.

E/SE winds 5-10 kt will increase to 10-15 kt at the coastal  
terminals. A few gusts up to 20 kt are possible. Wind direction
will vary significantly between 06-12Z as low pressure passes 
overhead. Winds then return out of the WSW Wednesday morning and
increase in speed through the day, with gusts increasing from 
20-25 kt in the late morning and early afternoon, to 35 to 40 
kt toward 00Z Thursday. KGON may not see the highest gusts 
until after 00Z. 

...NY Metro (KEWR/KLGA/KJFK/KTEB) TAF Uncertainty... 

ESE wind gusts up to 20 kt possible this evening.

Amendments are likely tonight with the onset of rain and lowering
cigs/vsbys. Wind direction will become highly variable overnight
as low pressure moves across the area. 

Timing and onset of strongest gusts on Wednesday will likely 
vary by 1-2 hours. MVFR ceilings may linger through the day 
with a chance of SHRA.

OUTLOOK FOR 00Z THURSDAY THROUGH SUNDAY...

Wednesday Night trough Thursday: VFR. W winds G25-35kt with 
occasional gusts up to 40 kt. Gusts decrease Thursday night.

Friday through Sunday: Mainly VFR. W winds G20-25kt.

Detailed information, including hourly TAF wind component forecasts, 
can be found at: https:/www.weather.gov/zny/n90

&&

.MARINE...
As low pressure approaches tonight, expect SE-S gusts to 25-30 kt 
developing on the ocean this evening and then translating eastward 
across southern bays and eastern LI Sound. A few gusts up to 35 kt 
may be possible on the eastern ocean waters, but appears too 
inverted for any more than brief and infrequent. 

Winds should subside below SCA briefly on all waters late tonight in 
wake of developing low pressure. Westerly winds then quickly 
increasing thru SCA to Gale Wed AM into early afternoon for the 
ocean waters, and then all waters Wed aft. Sustained W winds 
25-35 kt and gusts 40-45 kt expected to continue into Thu eve, 
before gradually diminishing to SCA Thu night. Gales should 
linger on most of the waters Thu evening.

Widespread SCA cond expected late Thursday night through much of 
Friday for all waters. Winds diminish Friday night, but remain 
above 25 kt on the ocean, while non-ocean waters fall below 
25 kt. An extended period of SCA for the weekend as gusts are 
forecast to be 25 to 30 kt for most of the waters and seas on 
the ocean build to 5 to 7 ft through Saturday night, slowly 
diminishing on Sunday

&&

.HYDROLOGY...
Rainfall rates of 1/4 to 1/2" likely with heaviest precip, briefly 
3/4-1" with any heavier convection this evening. Basin-wide 
rainfall totals of 1/2 to 3/4", with locally 1 1/2" possible 
if/where there is more persistent heavy rain shower/tstm 
banding. Most of this falls in a 3 to 4 hr time period, which 
may cause some minor urban and poor drainage flood issues.

&&

.TIDES/COASTAL FLOODING...
Per bias corrected ETSS/ESTOFS and NYHOPS central forecast blend, 
water levels may touch minor flood thresholds along the south shore 
bays of LI (including eastern Great South Bay, Moriches Bay, 
and Shinnecock Bay), Jamaica Bay and along the most vulnerable 
portions along NY Harbor with the Wed AM high tide. Statement 
issued to address this.

&&

.OKX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CT...Wind Advisory from 3 PM Wednesday to 10 PM EST Thursday for 
     CTZ005>012.
NY...Wind Advisory from 3 PM Wednesday to 10 PM EST Thursday for 
     NYZ067>075-078>081-176>179.
NJ...Wind Advisory from 3 PM Wednesday to 10 PM EST Thursday for 
     NJZ002-004-006-103>108.
MARINE...Small Craft Advisory until 6 AM EST Wednesday for ANZ331-332-
     340-345-350-353-355.
     Gale Warning from 1 PM Wednesday to 10 PM EST Thursday for 
     ANZ331-332-335-338-340-345.
     Gale Warning from 6 AM Wednesday to 1 AM EST Friday for ANZ350-
     353-355.

&&

$$

SYNOPSIS...JP/NV
NEAR TERM...NV
SHORT TERM...NV
LONG TERM...JP
AVIATION...DW
MARINE...JP/NV
HYDROLOGY...JP/NV
TIDES/COASTAL FLOODING...
