763 
FXUS61 KOKX 202151
AFDOKX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service New York NY
551 PM EDT Sun Apr 20 2025

.SYNOPSIS...
High pressure builds in through tonight and gradually slides east on 
Monday. A weak frontal system approaches Monday night, with the 
associated cold front moving through Tuesday evening into Tuesday 
night. This is followed by high pressure Wednesday through Friday.
High pressure moves offshore Friday night in response to our next
frontal system that impacts us Friday into Saturday. High pressure
follows Saturday night into Sunday.

&&

.NEAR TERM /UNTIL 6 AM MONDAY MORNING/...
For this evening update, temperatures were running warmer than
forecasted and dewpoints were running drier than forecasted.
These have been adjusted through early tonight to account for
current observations and trends. Otherwise, the forecast remains
on track. 

Vigorous northern stream closed low slides east from Quebec and
through the Canadian Maritimes into tonight, while southern 
upper ridging builds back towards the region tonight. 

Canadian high pressure noses in tonight with potential for good 
radiational cooling conditions for the first half of the night 
for the LI Pine Barrens parts of the far interior with temps 
dropping into the mid 30s and patchy frost development possible.
Not enough frost coverage across coastal areas where growing 
season has started to issue frost headline. Also, signal for 
increasing cloud cover late tonight with approach of elevated 
warm front, which would limit radiational cooling potential. 
Elsewhere, temps dropping into the 40s for the city/coast.

&&

.SHORT TERM /6 AM MONDAY MORNING THROUGH MONDAY NIGHT/...
A vigorous closed upper low over the SW US lifts into the upper
Great Lakes on Monday. At the surface, a resultant low pressure
system takes a similar track, sliding NE through the Great Lakes,
with its associated warm front lifting thru Monday, followed by
occluded/cold front approaching Monday night.

Strengthening return SE flow develops Monday as high pressure
slides offshore. Maritime flow off mid 40 degree waters, and 
developing/ne advecting stratus under a strong low-level 
inversion and elevated warm frontal passage, will likely result 
in temps running a few degrees below seasonable across the 
region on Monday (mid 50s along southern and eastern coasts to 
around 60 interior). NBM deterministic, generally in the lowest 
25th quartile, still looks good based on above. 

Some hi res guidance continues to hint as the potential for a 
few showers or sprinkles late Monday AM with an elevated warm 
frontal passage, especially inland, but soundings are rather 
dry with ridging surface and aloft, so not expecting much out of
this activity. LLJ strengthens ahead of approaching frontal 
system, with surface warm front approaching and entering the 
region Monday Night. Modest theta e advection and lift over 
this boundary will bring potential for scattered showers Monday 
night. Limited forcing and moisture, and lack of instability, 
will keep QPF light, generally at or under a tenth of an inch.

&&

.LONG TERM /TUESDAY THROUGH SUNDAY/...
Key Messages:

 * Tuesday will be the warmest day of the week (mid-70s/low-80s).

 * Fair weather under high pressure Wed-Thu.

 * A frontal system Fri-Sat will bring rain chances. Slight 
   chances for thunderstorms on Sat. 

 * Cooler temps (near average) return by Sunday with dry weather. 

A line of spotty showers along a prefrontal trough quickly exit east 
Tuesday morning, leaving things dry starting Tuesday midday. We'll 
remain warm-sectored until the actual cold front approaches and 
passes through Tuesday evening into Tuesday night. 

Tuesday into Tuesday night we'll remain under mainly zonal flow 
aloft, but both 500mb heights and 850mb temps will remain 
anomalously high. Under light to occasionally breezy westerly flow 
Wednesday, highs may climb into middle to upper 70s throughout much 
of the CWA. Some areas of urbanized NE NJ could reach the lower 80s. 
Coastal sections of Long Island an southern Connecticut (especially 
towards the east) may only reach the lower 70s to lower 60s given 
the nearby marine influence. 

The cold front will move through Tuesday night, but does not appear 
particularly strong. Despite high pressure building in behind the 
front into Tuesday night, may continue to see cloud cover (at least 
partly cloudy) given synoptic lift from our location within the 
right entrance region of a small jet streak to our north. THis 
should further weaken and move off Wednesday with high pressure 
strengthening, so expecting mainly sunshine as the day progresses on 
Wednesday. 

High confidence in a dry period Wednesday through Friday given high 
pressure at the surface should be centered over the region with a 
subtle ridge aloft with heights aloft being anomalously high. Winds 
should be light during this period under a weak pressure gradient 
with temperatures close to or slightly above average with daily 
highs in the lower 60s to middle 70s. Given the colder ocean waters 
and light synoptic flow, as well as sunny to mostly sunny skies, 
could see sea breezes occur Wednesday through Friday. This would 
keep daily highs to just the 60s on Long Island and coastal 
Connecticut. 

High pressure moves off shore and exits late Friday into Friday 
night in response to an approaching frontal system. A weak trough 
will dig into the Great Lakes on Friday then strengthen and become a 
close upper-low in NE Canada by Saturday. A low at the surface with 
develop with this trough over the Great Lakes on Friday, then track 
with it into Quebec on Saturday, strengthening as it tracks eastward 
in Canada. 

12Z global guidance appears to be in agreement on placement with 
this low with only small discrepancies in timing of the associated 
warm and cold fronts. This low is expected to bring a warm front 
through late Friday into Friday night followed by a sharp cold front 
Saturday late afternoon or evening.

Rain showers may be spotty to scattered in coverage following the 
warm front late Friday into Friday night. Then a final line of rain 
showers will develop along and pass with the cold front Saturday. 
Added a slight chance for thunderstorms on Saturday. COnfidence is 
low in thunderstorms occurring, but given we'll be warm-sectored 
prior to the cold front on Saturday, we could see some thunderstorms 
develop in the area of greatest lift, focused along the cold front. 
Model guidance is split on if we'll have enough instability for 
this. The 12Z ECMWF seems to have good amounts of MUCAPE ahead of 
the cold front while the 12Z GFS has none. Confidence in the chance 
for thunderstorms will increase as the event nears. 

Following the cold front, clouds will clear west to east Saturday 
night into Sunday as high pressure builds in from the west behind 
the exiting cold front and cold air advection occurs under a steady 
NW flow. Temperatures will also be cooler Saturday night into 
Sunday, as a result, nearing climatological averages or slightly 
below climatological norms by Sunday.

&&

.AVIATION /22Z SUNDAY THROUGH FRIDAY/...
High pressure moves overhead tonight and pushes off late Monday 
into Monday afternoon.. 

VFR through the TAF period.

NW to N winds sustained at around 10 to 20 kt with gusts 25 to 
30 kt will diminish through the rest of the afternoon, with gusts 
ending by this evening. The flow becomes light and variable or a 
light (around 5 kt or less) ENE flow overnight, becoming SE by 
Monday morning.


 ...NY Metro (KEWR/KLGA/KJFK/KTEB) TAF Uncertainty...

Winds may shift more to the N through this evening.

.OUTLOOK FOR 18Z MONDAY THROUGH FRIDAY...

Monday: VFR, then MVFR or lower possible at night with a chance
of showers late Monday night.

Tuesday: Mainly VFR. SW wind gusts 15-20 kt possible. 

Wednesday and Thursday: VFR.

Friday: Mainly VFR in the morning, becoming MVFR or lower in the 
afternoon 

Detailed information, including hourly TAF wind component forecasts, 
can be found at: https:/www.weather.gov/zny/n90

&&

.MARINE...
NW gusts and seas have now fallen below SCA criteria. 

Sub SCA conditions expected on all water tonight thru Monday 
afternoon as high pressure moves across the waters. Seas may 
build toward 5 ft on the ocean Monday night with a frontal 
passage, but latest guidance continues to run just shy of SCA.

SCA criteria is not expected to be met Tuesday through Friday
night.

&&

.FIRE WEATHER...
Elevated wildfire spread threat persists into late day with 
highs in the 60s, northwest winds of 15-20G25 mph and min RH 
values in the lower to mid 20 percent range. The Special Weather
Statement remains in effect until 7pm this evening to highlight
this potential. This threat diminishes for Monday with
increasing RH and light winds.

&&

.HYDROLOGY...
There are no hydrologic issues through this week.

&&

.OKX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CT...None.
NY...None.
NJ...None.
MARINE...None.

&&

$$

SYNOPSIS...BR/DR
NEAR TERM...BR/DR
SHORT TERM...DR
LONG TERM...BR
AVIATION...JP
MARINE...BR/DR
FIRE WEATHER...
HYDROLOGY...BR/DR
