365 
FXUS61 KOKX 020647
AFDOKX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service New York NY
247 AM EDT Wed Jul 2 2025

.SYNOPSIS...
A cold front slowly advances through the area from the west this 
morning and stalls this morning. It eventually washes out tonight. 
Another cold front passes Thursday afternoon into early Thursday 
evening. High pressure builds in behind the front Thursday night. 
High pressure remains on Independence Day into the beginning of
the weekend. The high moves offshore late Sunday followed by a 
pre- frontal trough and weak low pressure southwest of the area 
Monday into Tuesday. 

&&

.NEAR TERM /THROUGH TONIGHT/...
A cold front is draped along the western edge of our CWA. This front 
is expected to slowly advance eastward through a part of our area 
this morning before stalling into the afternoon, then washing out 
altogether, tonight. A passing shortwave will bring some pockets of 
positive vorticity advection through the area early this morning in 
mid-morning before exiting east by midday. 

Scattered light rain/drizzle remains across the area early this 
morning. PWATs are currently analyzed at 1.9-2 inches by SPC's 
mesoanalysis and have dropped a few tenths of an inch over the past 
several hours as the cold front advances. Light rainfall may 
continue for a large portion of the area into daybreak, but will 
taper west to east through midday, as the front slowly advances with 
drier air filtering in behind in helping to cut off precip. Dry 
weather is expected for much the area by this afternoon with only 
slight chances for a few lingering light showers along the southern 
and eastern coasts this afternoon. Instability is expected to remain 
poor through midday, so no thunderstorms are expected. 

Partly sunny skies will return to much of the area this afternoon 
and early evening as the front stalls or washes out across the 
eastern portion of our area. A moisture gradient may still linger 
over far eastern areas, keeping some cloud cover around eastern 
Suffolk county and southern New London county into tonight. Mostly 
clear skies are expected for the rest of the area tonight. 

Temperatures today will end up cooler than what we saw yesterday. 
Highs will be in the mid/low 80s with lows tonight in the low 70s to 
mid 60s. 

&&

.SHORT TERM /THURSDAY THROUGH FRIDAY NIGHT/...
On Thursday, a long wave upper-level trough over Ontario & Quebec 
amplifies as it rotates east into Quebec with surface low pressure 
developing over eastern Quebec and the Canadian Maritimes. This 
brings another cold front through the area Thursday afternoon into 
early evening. 

While much of the morning will be mostly sunny, partly to mostly 
cloudy skies are expected in the afternoon as the cold front brings 
with it a period of showers and thunderstorms. 00Z CAMs are wishy 
washy on the amount of CAPE. However, they are consistent on only 
marginal mid-level lapse rates with good 0-6 km bulk shear. With 
marginal mid-level lapse rates (most 00Z CAMs range from 6.5-
7.1C/km) it may be difficult for some thunderstorm development, but 
given enough CAPE, thunderstorm chances look decent. With ample 
shear available (most 00Z CAMs have at least 30 kts, with some 
pushing 60 kts) any thunderstorms that do occur could become strong 
to severe with an isolated risk for damaging winds. 

Given more radiational heating, highs will be warmer on Thursday, 
reaching the low 90s to mid 80s. Lows Thursday night will cool to 
near 70 to the mid 50s at the coast while interior areas will cool 
into the low 60s. 

Our Independence Day forecast couldn't look better. High 
pressure settles Thursday night following a cold front and 
remains in place through Independence Day. Sunny skies are 
expected with highs in the low to mid 80s. Clear skies remain 
into Friday night allowing for good viewing of firework 
displays. 

&&

.LONG TERM /SATURDAY THROUGH TUESDAY/...
No significant changes were made to the extended forecast with NBM 
guidance utilized.

Upper ridging is expected through the weekend. Warming 
temperatures are expected (and humidity) each day Saturday 
through Monday.

&&

.AVIATION /07Z WEDNESDAY THROUGH SUNDAY/...
A cold front stalls over the area into today, before moving east 
Wednesday night into Thursday morning.

SHRA persists much of the time into the overnight for the city and 
especially eastern coastal terminals. MVFR cigs likely to prevail 
overnight until daybreak or so with some pockets of MVFR and IFR 
vsbys possible for a few outlying terminals. Then an improvement and 
return to VFR thru mid morning, if not sooner. VFR prevails 
for the afternoon into the evening.

Winds settle in at 5 kt or less overnight. Then for the later today 
become mainly WNW for inland terminals with coastal terminals 
turning more SW for the afternoon with sea breeze development up to 
10 kt. The winds then become light during Wednesday evening.


 ...NY Metro (KEWR/KLGA/KJFK/KTEB) TAF Uncertainty...

Amendments likely due to uncertainty in timing of and flight rule 
categories associated with SHRA/TSRA, improvement to VFR 

Isolated shra/tsra possible late Wed afternoon.

.OUTLOOK FOR 06Z THURSDAY THROUGH SUNDAY... 

Wednesday night: Mainly VFR, with pockets of sub VFR possible for 
eastern most terminals like KGON and KISP late at night.

Thursday: Possible showers and thunderstorms with brief MVFR or 
lower possible day into early eve, higher chances north and west of 
NYC terminals.

Friday-Sunday: VFR.

Detailed information, including hourly TAF wind component
forecasts, can be found at: https:/www.weather.gov/zny/n90

&&

.MARINE...
Sub-SCA conditions are expected on all waters under a weak pressure 
gradient today through Friday night. 

Tstms may pose a hazard of gusty winds, lightning, heavy rain, 
and locally rough seas Thu aft/eve.

A light pressure gradient continues over the waters to begin the 
weekend with tranquil conditions. By Sunday a return wind flow out 
of the south takes hold with ocean seas around 3 ft. Other than 
somewhat marginal small craft seas on the eastern ocean possible 
Sunday night, sub advisory conditions are expected to prevail 
through the weekend and into the start of next week.

&&

.HYDROLOGY...
The flood threat has come to an end as the heavier rainfall has
exited the area.

&&

.TIDES/COASTAL FLOODING...
A high risk of rip currents continues into Wednesday due to a 
southerly swell of 4-5 ft 7s. This will produce waves in the 
surf zone of 3-5 ft. The swell will subside some heading into 
Thursday with the risk expected to lower to moderate.

&&

.OKX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CT...None.
NY...High Risk for Rip Currents through this evening for NYZ075-080-081-
     178-179.
NJ...None.
MARINE...None.

&&

$$

SYNOPSIS...JE/BR
NEAR TERM...BR
SHORT TERM...BR
LONG TERM...JE
AVIATION...JE
MARINE...JE/BR
HYDROLOGY...JE/BR
TIDES/COASTAL FLOODING...
