766 
FXUS61 KOKX 141812
AFDOKX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service New York NY
212 PM EDT Sat Jun 14 2025

.SYNOPSIS...
A frontal wave will pass to the south today. High pressure 
builds in from the northeast tonight into Sunday. Weak high 
pressure will then remain in place through at least Monday. A 
nearly stationary front remains Tuesday with a wave of low 
pressure affecting the region. The front moves north as a warm 
front Tuesday night, passing north during Wednesday. A cold 
front moves through the region Thursday night. High pressure 
builds in Friday.

&&

.NEAR TERM /THROUGH TONIGHT/...
Mainly light rain falling across the area this afternoon, with
the steadiest falling across the NYC/NJ metro and LI. These 
locations are generally seeing less than a 0.1".hr. Expect this 
activity to gradually shift SE through early this evening, 
decreasing in both coverage and intensity. 

High pressure will nose in from the northeast behind the low 
tonight as drier air filters in, PoPs decrease, but still 
remain slight chance/chance through the night.

Highs will top out in the 60s this afternoon, with lows tonight
in the 50s to around 60 in NYC.

&&

.SHORT TERM /SUNDAY THROUGH MONDAY NIGHT/...
High pressure continues to build in from the northeast on Sunday. 
PoPs continue to decrease with a dry day expected for the most part, 
especially for eastern Long Island and eastern CT. Confidence in 
also increasing in some breaks of sun for these eastern areas and 
have lowered sky cover just a bit. Given this, also upped 
temperatures a few degrees in these areas. Otherwise NBM was 
followed for temps through this time period.

&&

.LONG TERM /TUESDAY THROUGH FRIDAY/...
A nearly stationary front remains south of the region Tuesday as 
another wave of low pressure moves along the boundary with a chance 
of showers by late day. With the approach of a trough and surface 
low moving through the upper Midwest and into southern Canada 
Tuesday night into Wednesday, the front is expected to beginning 
moving to the north as a warm front, and likely pass to the north 
during Wednesday. A cold front approaching during Thursday and 
passes through the area Thursday night. While there will be slight 
to chance probabilities of rainfall Tuesday into Wednesday night, 
the best chances for rainfall will be with the cold front 
approaching during the day Thursday, and currently forecast to pass 
through the region Thursday night. Precipitable water values 
increase to around 1.75 inches, and there will be surface based and 
elevated CAPE in place. With a warm and unstable airmass ahead of 
the front, there is the potential for thunderstorms, some of which 
may produce briefly heavy rainfall.
At this time the storms will be moving rather quickly, and training 
is not expected, so hydrologic impacts are not expected. An 
amplifying ridge across the central United States Thursday night 
approaches for Friday and into the beginning of next weekend. With 
no targets of opportunity have used the deterministic NBM through 
the extended period.

&&

.AVIATION /18Z SATURDAY THROUGH THURSDAY/...
Stationary front remains south of the area as an area of low
pressure moves along the boundary today. High pressure builds 
into the region from the northeast late tonight into Sunday 
morning.

MVFR or IFR with light rain into late day. Rain expected to 
taper by early evening, but IFR cigs likely persist tonight. 
Improvement to MVFR by mid Sunday AM. Possible return to VFR by
afternoon, though cigs may instead remain MVFR thru the day.

Winds NE around 10 to 15 kt through today, diminishing a few 
kts this evening. ENE on Sunday with speeds at or under 10 kt.

    NY Metro (KEWR/KLGA/KJFK/KTEB) TAF Uncertainty...

Amendments possible for changing flight categories through TAF.

.OUTLOOK FOR 12Z SUNDAY THROUGH THURSDAY... 

Sunday - Monday: Slight chance of showers, mainly from the New 
York City terminals and west, with MVFR to IFR possible at 
times. Otherwise VFR.

Tuesday: Mainly VFR, slight chance of showers late day into the 
night, with a chance of MVFR to IFR.

Wednesday - Thursday: Mostly VFR. A chance of showers and 
thunderstorms with a period of sub-VFR.

Detailed information, including hourly TAF wind component forecasts, 
can be found at: https:/www.weather.gov/zny/n90

&&

.MARINE...
SCA remains up for LI Sound and the ocean waters. The higher
winds look to be mainly confined to western LI Sounds and will
likely drop off in the next couple of hours. 

Otherwise, NE winds will produce seas up to 5 ft on the ocean 
waters. Stuck closer to WaveWatch as NWPS seemed a bit low given
a sustained winds at 15-20 kt for several hours. SCA up through
tonight on the ocean. Otherwise, sub SCA conditions expected 
through Monday night.

Winds and seas remain below SCA levels across the forecast waters 
Tuesday through Thursday. With the approach of a cold front 
Thursday, passing through the waters Thursday night, southwest to 
west winds will be increasing. By later Thursday night wind gusts on 
the ocean waters east of Fire Island Inlet  may approach SCA levels, 
and ocean seas may build to near 5 feet.

&&

.HYDROLOGY...
No hydrologic impacts expected Tuesday through the end of the
week.

&&

.TIDES/COASTAL FLOODING...
Sticking with moderate risk of rip currents for ocean beaches today. 
Some uncertainty in exact strength and direction of winds which in 
turn will affect wave heights and direction. If winds end up more 
northerly than forecast, the rip current activity will likely be 
lower and the risk may be updated during the day.

Winds will be more easterly on Sunday an around 10 kt. An E wave 
component around 4 ft at 6s will result in a low risk of rip current 
activity.

&&

.OKX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CT...None.
NY...None.
NJ...None.
MARINE...Small Craft Advisory until 4 PM EDT this afternoon for ANZ331-
     332-335.
     Small Craft Advisory until 6 AM EDT Sunday for ANZ350-353-355.

&&

$$

SYNOPSIS...MET/JT
NEAR TERM...JT/DW
SHORT TERM...JT
LONG TERM...MET
AVIATION...DR
MARINE...MET/JT
HYDROLOGY...MET/JT
TIDES/COASTAL FLOODING...
