532 
FXUS61 KOKX 032120
AFDOKX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service New York NY
420 PM EST Fri Jan 3 2025

.SYNOPSIS...
Low pressure continues to retrograde into SE Canada today.
Meanwhile another low develops well south of the region today
and moves well offshore tonight. High pressure will remain south
and west of the region with low pressure north of the region 
going into this weekend. Low pressure passes through the Mid 
Atlantic on Monday and offshore Monday night. Behind it, the 
area will be in between strong low pressure to our northeast and
high pressure to our west and southwest through the end of the
week.

&&

.NEAR TERM /UNTIL 6 AM SATURDAY MORNING/...
Longwave troughing continues anchored by large scale closed
upper low over Quebec tonight, with northern stream shortwave 
pivoting from the eastern Great Lakes through the region 
tonight. At the surface, a cold front crosses east of the 
region by this evening, with weak surface wave developing well 
south and east of the region.

Potential for a few flurries/isolated snow showers, with 
shortwave trough/cold frontal passage this evening. Localized 
dusting possible with any snow shower activity. 

Otherwise, after a brief weakening of the pressure gradient 
this evening, breezy conditions (occasional gusts 25 to 30 mph) 
redevelop late tonight with tightening pressure gradient and 
shot of CAA in wake of shortwave/cold frontal passage and with 
rapid deepening of departing low pressure. 

&&

.SHORT TERM /6 AM SATURDAY MORNING THROUGH MONDAY NIGHT/...
* Light snowfall (Coating to 2") likely Monday, particularly 
  for southern portions of the region, as low pressure passes to
  the south. Travel impacts possible to the Monday AM and 
  Monday afternoon commute.

* Small deviations in track would increase/decrease snowfall 
  amounts by a few inches.

Good model agreement in longwave troughing continuing across 
the NE US Saturday, anchored by deep closed low over Quebec. 
This then gets sheared by developing intense closed low heading
towards NewFoundland Sunday. The evolution of the NewFoundland 
closed low and interaction with original closed low Sunday Night
into Monday will play high sensitivity to track/intensity of a 
vigorous shortwave (and downstream ridging) ejecting into the 
Central Plains Sunday and to the Mid Atlantic coast by Monday. 

Before then, deep NW/W flow between Canadian Maritimes low and 
high pressure well to the SW through the weekend. CAA continues
on Saturday in wake of the cold front (NW gusts 25 to 35 mph, 
peak 40 mph) with temps about 5 degrees below seasonable (lower 
to mid 30s). CAA neutralizes on Sunday with winds similar to or
just slightly weaker than Sat. Continued westerly flow and 
shallower mixing will have highs once again 5 degrees below 
seasonable (lower to mid 30s). Dry conditions through the 
weekend, but some snow flurries possible Sat aft/eve with weak 
shortwave energy moving through and brief extension of lake 
effect streamers. 

As mentioned above, the forecast sensitivity for potential snow
on Monday lies with the complex interactions between multiple 
upper level features. This in turn will be the determining 
factor to the track, timing, intensity of secondary low pressure
developing along southern Mid Atlantic coast Monday and then 
tracking southeast of the region Monday Night. Deterministic 
med range models and their ensembles are in good agreement with 
low pressure tracking well south (50 to 250 miles) of the 40/70
lat/lon benchmark, which typically keeps significant 
accumulating snowfall south of the region. In addition, a good 
signal for moderately strong frontogenetic forcing to the north
of the low, which will make for a sharp northern gradient 
between few to several inches of accumulating snow and little to
no snowfall. Central agreement is for this banding to occur 
from southern NJ down to the Mid Atlantic, with spread as far 
north as central NJ. Probability at this time of this heavy snow
banding to working into southern portions of the local region is
at less than 10%.

With that said, the primary New Foundland closed upper low that
will be a driver for the Monday system does not really get 
going until the next 18 to 24 hrs. WPC/CSTAR ensemble 
sensitivity analysis indicating a farther east Newfoundland low 
would allow for greater downstream ridging across the NE and a 
further north track. This is a low probability solution (15-20%
ensemble membership at this point), but only represents a 
northward track shift of 50 miles. Similarly a further west or 
deeper New Foundland low would result in a further south track 
to low pressure (60% ensemble membership at this point), with 
little if any snow accum locally. This should be better sampled
and resolved by model guidance over the next 24-48 hrs. 

So at this point, forecast aligns with NBM/WPC ensemble means, 
with central forecast of 1 to 2 inches across NE NJ/NY metro and
W/C LI, and dusting to an inch for Low hud and S CT. Reasonable
high end forecast (10th percentile) of 3 to 5" for southern 
areas (less to the north) and reasonable low end (90th 
percentile) of no snow. Snowier solutions present potential for 
light snow to develop for the Mon AM commute for NYC/NJ metro 
and surroundings and likely tapering off before evening commute.

Again, monitor forecasts through the weekend for the latest. 

&&

.LONG TERM /TUESDAY THROUGH FRIDAY/...
Key Points:

* Dry, cold and windy conditions are expected through the entire 
  long term period. 

Low pressure continues to pull away Tuesday to the northeast. This 
low looks to interact with another low in eastern Canada and then 
remain in place through the end of the week. Meanwhile, high 
pressure will be in place to our west and southwest. This puts the 
area in a tight pressure gradient and will result in a persistent 
gusty northwest flow. Blended in the NBM 90th percentile winds 
and wind gusts to bump up and better match global guidance. For 
now, it looks like a period of widespread 20 to 30 mph gusts, 
but this could trend up a bit.

For temperatures, the NBM deterministic temperature guidance was 
closer to the NBM 90th percentile temperatures. Went with a 
blend of the 50th and 75th as well as raw model data to bump 
temperatures down a few degrees. Highs Tuesday through Thursday 
look to be in the upper 20s to low 30s. Lows each night look to 
be in the mid teens to low 20s. Given the winds though, wind 
chill values likely don't get out of the teens Tuesday through 
Thursday and could be as low as below 0 Wednesday night (mainly 
across the interior).

&&

.AVIATION /21Z FRIDAY THROUGH WEDNESDAY/...
A quick moving weak low south of the area moves offshore tonight. 
Meanwhile a sprawling area of low pressure remains centered to the 
north of the region as high pressure builds to the west.

VFR. There is a slight chance of flurries this evening, with 
conditions remaining VFR. with isolated MVFR possible.

W flow persists with gusts ending by 23Z. Winds back toward NW 
tonight with gusts redeveloping to around 25kt. Winds and gusts 
increase Saturday morning, and toward 18Z gusts may be 35-39kt.


 ...NY Metro (KEWR/KLGA/KJFK/KTEB) TAF Uncertainty...

Gusts redevelop late tonight 05Z/06Z and may begin an hour or two 
later than forecast.

Occasional gusts up to 40kt possible Saturday afternoon.


OUTLOOK FOR 18Z SATURDAY THROUGH WEDNESDAY...

Saturday afternoon: VFR. WNW winds 18-25kt, gusts 25-35kt, 
occasional gusts up to 40kt, especially along the coast.

Sunday: VFR. W gusts 20-25kt. MVFR with a chance of light snow at 
the NYC metro terminals toward Monday morning.

Monday: IFR at the NYC metro terminals and KISP with snow. MVFR, IFR 
possible, with light snow at the other terminals.

Tuesday: VFR. WNW winds 15-20kt, gusts 25-30kt.

Wednesday: VFR. W gusts 20-25kt.

Detailed information, including hourly TAF wind component forecasts, 
can be found at: https:/www.weather.gov/zny/n90

&&

.MARINE...
SCA conditions expected all waters through Sunday, outside of a
brief lull in SCA cond for nearshore waters this evening with 
passage of a weak cold front. 

SCA conditions should briefly abate on the ocean Sunday night 
and Monday as low pressure track well to the south, before 
returning Monday night or early Tuesday as NW flow increases 
with persistent cold advection.

Small Craft Advisory conditions expected Tuesday through the end of 
next week for all waters. There could even be some periods of gale 
force gusts in there, but it is too far out to narrow down a time 
window for that. Given the consistent northwesterly flow, seas on 
the ocean likely rise to 7 to 8 feet by mid to late week. Waves on 
the LI Sound may also reach 5 to 6 feet, especially closer to the 
Suffolk County coast.

&&

.HYDROLOGY...
No significant hydrologic issues anticipated through the end of
next week.

&&

.TIDES/COASTAL FLOODING...
Low probability for water levels to approach minor flood
thresholds for vulnerable coastal communities with the MOnday
Night high tide. This will be contingent on further north
solution with a low pressure passage. 

&&

.OKX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CT...None.
NY...None.
NJ...None.
MARINE...Small Craft Advisory until 7 PM EST Sunday for ANZ331-332-335-
     338-340-345-350-353-355.

&&

$$

SYNOPSIS...JT/NV
NEAR TERM...NV
SHORT TERM...NV
LONG TERM...JT
AVIATION...MET
MARINE...JT/NV
HYDROLOGY...JT/NV
TIDES/COASTAL FLOODING...NV
