011 
FXUS61 KOKX 080549
AFDOKX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service New York NY
149 AM EDT Tue Apr 8 2025

.SYNOPSIS...
A wave of low pressure will pass to the south and east tonight,
followed by a strong cold frontal passage toward daybreak. Another
area of low pressure will then pass to the north Tuesday into 
Tuesday night. High pressure builds south of the region Wednesday 
into Thursday. A broad area of low pressure likely impacts the 
area for the end of the week into the weekend.

&&

.NEAR TERM /THROUGH TODAY/...
A stationary boundary over the Mid Atlantic states and to the 
southeast of the area will get kicked eastward tonight along 
with a deepening frontal wave. The latter of which has produced 
pockets of light rain, mainly across coastal locations into the 
first half of tonight. We are currently in a bit of a lull 
precip wise, but additional upper jet energy could bring another
episode of light rain across far eastern LI and SE CT during 
the late night/early morning hours. Rainfall amounts will be 
light and generally under a tenth of an inch. Thereafter, an 
amplifying northern branch upper low/trough tracks across across
the Great Lakes tonight passing to the north on Tuesday. The 
associated occluded surface low will drag a strong cold front 
through the area toward daybreak. Behind the front, a gusty WNW 
wind and strong CAA will drop temperatures into the 30s by 
daybreak, with highs on Tuesday struggling to get into the lower
and middle 40s. These readings will be about 10 degrees above 
normal. 

Winds on Tuesday are forecast to fall just short of wind
advisory criteria. Used the NBM 90th percentile and even then
had to bump up the sustained wind and gusts a few knots. Expect
sustained wind of 20 to 30 mph to develop by late Tuesday morning
with gusts up to 40 mph. There will likely be a few higher gusts
as has been the case this winter with deeply-mixed air masses.
Winds will be slow to diminish Tuesday night.

&&

.SHORT TERM /TONIGHT THROUGH 6 PM WEDNESDAY/...
Winds will gradually subside Tuesday night as low pressure
departs from the Canadian Maritimes and high pressure builds in
from the west. Lows will be well below normal with lows ranging
from the lower/mid 20s inland to the upper 20s/lower 30s at the
coast. The average date of the last spring freeze is April 1 for
the NY/NJ metro area. However, with winds staying up confidence
right now is not high enough to issue a Freeze Watch. However, 
a Freeze Warning is still possible as newer guidance is analyzed
overnight. It will be very close to freezing. Again, this is 
about 10 degrees below normal.

&&

.LONG TERM /WEDNESDAY NIGHT THROUGH MONDAY/...
High pres builds S of the region on Wed. Although it will be cooler 
than normal with high in the 40s, it will be sunny with decreasing 
winds by aftn. The full sun should offset the cold airmass, with the 
NBM 5 degrees or more warmer than pure mixing from h85. This seemed 
reasonable based on time of year so stuck with the output.

A weak return flow attempts to develop late Wed and Wed ngt. At the 
same time, increasing mid and high clouds begin pumping into the 
area from the sys currently on the Pacific coast. These will be 
limiting factors for low temps Wed ngt, so frost/freeze impacts 
appear unlikely attm.

BKN-OVC on Thu with the potential for some lgt rain by the end of 
the day, particularly wrn zones, as lift increases.

Broad lift across the cwa with increasing theta-e Thu ngt so rain 
can be expected.  

Subtropical tap on Fri with a slow moving upr trof, so rain 
continues Fri and Fri ngt. 

As the pattern shifts ewd Sat, rain chances will shift as well. Too 
soon to tell if the rain remains offshore or not, so stuck with the 
blended approach and used the NBM. Pops around 50 percent as a 
result. 

The 12Z modeling suggests the trof may be far enough E to spare the 
cwa additional rain on Sun, but confidence is not high this far out 
as the overall timing of the sys could drift.

&&

.AVIATION /06Z TUESDAY THROUGH SATURDAY/...
Low pressure passing along a stalled frontal boundary to our 
south is exiting east this morning, aided by a strong cold front
expected to pass this morning. Following the cold front this 
morning, high pressure settles in through Wednesday. 

TAF sites will continue to flirt with IFR/MVFR ceilings and
mist through 9Z. Then most sites will begin to improve between
MVFR and VFR. All sites should be VFR by 11-12Z, with KGON not
VFR until 13Z. We will then remain VFR for the remainder of the
day and into Wednesday. 

Winds will remain mostly light and variable through 9-12Z until
the cold front brings winds up in a steady direction. Winds 
later this morning will be WNW 10-15 with gusts of 20-25 kt,
increasing in speed quickly. Winds will prevail this afternoon
and early evening WNW 22-28 kt with gusts 32-37 kt. Peak gusts
could be upwards of 40 kt. Winds diminish into the late evening
and tonight, maintaining a WNW direction, perhaps closer to NW
tonight. We lose the gusts somewhere around 9-12Z tomorrow with
sustained winds around 10 kt at this time, give or take a few
kts. 

 ...NY Metro (KEWR/KLGA/KJFK/KTEB) TAF Uncertainty... 

Timing of improvement to VFR early this morning may be off by 1
to 3 hours.

Timing of wind shift behind the cold front tonight may be off by 1-3 
hours.

Peak gusts on Tuesday around 40 kt. 

.OUTLOOK FOR 06Z WEDNESDAY THROUGH SATURDAY...

Wednesday: VFR.

Thursday: MVFR possible late with a chance of showers.

Friday: IFR possible with showers likely. E-SE wind gusts 15-20 kt 
possible.

Saturday: MVFR or lower possible. Chance of showers. E-SE wind gusts 
15-20 kt possible.

Detailed information, including hourly TAF wind component forecasts, 
can be found at: https:/www.weather.gov/zny/n90

&&

.MARINE...
Gale warning have been posted for all waters on Tuesday. Before
then, tonight, a Small Craft Advisory is now in effect until 
6AM Tuesday with lingering 5 ft seas on the eastern Ocean Zone.
There will also be occasional 5 ft waves in the central Ocean
Zone.

Low pressure passing to the north late tonight into Tuesday 
will send a strong cold front across the area with gale force 
gusts of 35 to 40 kt developing mid to late morning. Gales will 
likely subside in the early evening hours on the non-ocean water
Tuesday evening, but likely linger a few hours longer on the 
ocean. A SCA will likely replace the gale for all waters.

Decreasing winds on Wed, but the ocean may remain at SCA lvls 
due to seas for at least the first part of the day. All waters 
blw SCA criteria Wed ngt into Thu. SCA cond possible, mainly on 
the ocean, Thu ngt thru Sat with a slow moving low pres sys.

&&

.HYDROLOGY...
There are no hydrologic concerns through Thursday. 

Several rounds of rain are likely for the end of the week into 
the weekend. Only minor hydrologic impacts, if any, are expected
attm.

&&

.OKX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CT...None.
NY...None.
NJ...None.
MARINE...Gale Warning from 6 AM this morning to 8 PM EDT this evening 
     for ANZ331-332-335-338-340-345.
     Small Craft Advisory until 6 AM EDT early this morning for 
     ANZ350.
     Gale Warning from 6 AM this morning to 11 PM EDT this evening 
     for ANZ350-353-355.

&&

$$

SYNOPSIS...JMC/DW
NEAR TERM...JT/DW
SHORT TERM...DW
LONG TERM...JMC
AVIATION...BR
MARINE...JMC/JT/DW
HYDROLOGY...JMC/DW
