114 
FXUS61 KOKX 170810
AFDOKX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service New York NY
410 AM EDT Sat May 17 2025

.SYNOPSIS...
A warm front pushes north this morning, followed by a pre-frontal 
trough and cold front this afternoon/evening. A secondary cold front 
passes through Sunday evening. Low pressure is slow to exit the New 
England coast and surface troughing may linger over the area through 
Monday night as high pressure gradually builds in from the
northwest. High pressure takes control Monday night into early 
Tuesday night. A frontal system impacts the area Wednesday into 
Friday.

&&

.NEAR TERM /THROUGH TONIGHT/...
The upper low currently located over the Great Lakes continues 
approaching today, with multiple spokes of vorticity rounding the 
trough. It is progged to be centered over northern NY by 6 AM 
Sunday. At the surface, a warm front has pushed through and will 
continue to move north this morning. Behind it, a pre-frontal trough 
and cold front approach and move through this afternoon/evening.

The convection forecast continues to be tricky today. Once again, 
ongoing broken line/MCS activity may reach western portions of the 
area a few hours after sunrise. While the activity will be 
weakening, there will be some MUCAPE available, enough to 
continue the slight chance mention of thunder this morning. This
activity could have an impact on how unstable we can become 
during the late morning/early afternoon which will in turn 
impact any afternoon/evening thunderstorm and severe weather 
potential. Latest consensus across the CAMs is we are able to 
clear out enough to get MLCAPE values up as high as 1500 J/kg 
this afternoon across northeast NJ, the Lower Hudson Valley and 
interior southern CT. It looks like there will be two main 
surface triggers for convective initiation, in the afternoon 
along a pre-frontal trough and then later in the evening along 
the actual cold front. There will also be support aloft with the
lowering heights as the trough approaches. With 1500 J/kg of 
MLCAPE and 35-40 kt of 0-6 km bulk shear, some organized 
convection is possible to produce severe weather. While this 
threat can not be totally ruled out for the whole area, the 
current thinking is the greatest chances (although still low) 
will be across northeast NJ, the Lower Hudson Valley and across 
interior southern CT. The main threat is the potential for 
damaging winds and large hail, but given decent low level 
curvature in model hodographs, a quick isolated tornado can not 
be completely ruled out, mainly across interior southern CT.

NBM was used of for T and Td today giving highs in the upper 70s to 
mid 80s for most and Tds reaching the mid to upper 60s. Winds 
increase today and forecast wind gusts were increased a bit with the 
NBM90th percentile across northeast NJ, NYC and the Lower Hudson 
Valley where the mixed layer is expected to be a bit deeper. Gusts 
up to 30 mph are possible this afternoon.

The cold front pushes through likely just before or around midnight 
and will finally start to filter in a drier airmass in a westerly 
flow.

&&

.SHORT TERM /SUNDAY THROUGH MONDAY NIGHT/...
The upper level low will be centered to our north most of Sunday as 
it very gradually shifts east. Some energy rotating around the low 
will aid in pushing a secondary cold front through the area in the 
evening hours. Some light rain showers are possible with this 
feature, mainly across the interior. No thunder is forecast. Skies 
also likely fill in around 4 kft, leading to mostly cloudy 
conditions for the afternoon. In the cooler airmass, highs are 
forecast to be in the upper 60s to lower 70s.

Surface troughing could continue into Monday as the low lingers off 
the New England coast. Dry and sunny conditions are expected with 
similar high temperatures as Sunday.

Both days could be gusty with some deeper mixing each day. 25 to 30 
mph gusts are expected.

&&

.LONG TERM /TUESDAY THROUGH FRIDAY/...
Key Message:

 * A frontal system likely impacts the region beginning   Wednesday, 
and continues into Thursday, and possibly into Friday.

No significant changes were made to the forecast for Tuesday into 
the end of the week, as a frontal system remains likely to impact 
the region late Tuesday night into Friday. An upper closed low 
develop over the mid section into the upper Midwest by late Tuesday 
night, and then the upper trough deepens and the closed low and 
upper trough are slow to move eastward into the beginning of next 
weekend. At the surface a deepening low moves out of the Mid 
Mississippi Valley and into the Ohio Valley late Tuesday into 
Wednesday. This low then moves slowly across the northeast Thursday 
into Friday in association of the upper low becoming nearly 
stacked. With a secondary surface low developing late Wednesday 
into Wednesday night and increased precipitable waters values and 
lift, there is the potential for a period of moderate rainfall. 
Also, depending on the track of the low Thursday's temperatures are 
more uncertain. However, overall temperatures will be near or slightly 
below normal levels Tuesday through Friday.

&&

.AVIATION /08Z SATURDAY THROUGH WEDNESDAY/... 
A warm front remaining just south of the region at 07Z will 
advance slowly northward early this morning, and move north of 
the terminals today. A cold front follows for late this evening.

Conditions have been slow to lower at the NYC terminals and west, 
while to the east IFR to VLIFR in stratus and fog is widespread. 
Uncertainty remains as to the timing and how far west IFR to LIFR to 
develop through the remainder of the overnight. And KSWF may remain 
MVFR through the overnight. Condition improve quickly after sunrise, 
especially across the inland terminals, and at the coastal terminals 
VFR expected late morning into the afternoon. Showers and 
thunderstorms may be more scattered by late afternoon into this 
evening, and continued with the PROB30 for TSRA.

Light and variable flow becomes southerly early this morning, then 
southerly winds pick up to 10-15kt with some gusts up to 20kt in the 
afternoon. With a cold front passage late this evening winds shift 
to the W/NW, and may become gusty late tonight.


 ...NY Metro (KEWR/KLGA/KJFK/KTEB) TAF Uncertainty...

Uncertainty with the timing of IFR to LIFR mainly KJFK and KLGA, and 
uncertain of LIFR at KEWR and KTEB, which may be IFR into early 
morning.

Tempo or prevailing vsbys of 1/4sm possible at KJFK from 08-12z Sat.


.OUTLOOK FOR 06Z SUNDAY THROUGH WEDNESDAY...

Saturday night: VFR. W/NW winds G20kt.

Sunday: VFR. Slight chance of showers inland with MVFR possible. W 
winds G20-25kt.

Monday - Tuesday: VFR. Monday NW winds G20-25kt day into evening.

Wednesday: MVFR or lower with showers likely, mainly at night. E 
wind gusts 15-20 kt.

Detailed information, including hourly TAF wind component forecasts, 
can be found at: https:/www.weather.gov/zny/n90

&&

.MARINE...
Latest observations show areas of dense fog across the LI Sound and 
some patchy dense fog on all other waters. Marine Weather Statements 
and Dense fog Advisories are in effect until 9 AM.

Sub-Small Craft Advisory conditions are expected for the most 
part today. However, some nearshore gusts could reach 25 kt, 
mainly in the NY Harbor and western LI Sound. Additionally, some
afternoon thunderstorms are possible and could create locally 
higher winds and waves.

Winds pick back up on Sunday and a Small Craft Advisory is in effect 
during the daylight hours. Gusts could reach 25 to 30 kt, with seas 
over the ocean reaching 4-5 ft. There is potential for the SCA to be 
extended through Monday as marginal conditions are expected.

Winds and seas remain below advisory levels on all the forecast 
waters Tuesday into Wednesday. With the approach of a frontal system 
during Wednesday and easterly flow will be increasing and by late 
day SCA conditions may develop on the ocean waters. With the 
increased and persistent east flow into Thursday winds and seas on 
the ocean waters will likely be at SCA levels. As low pressure 
tracks northeast of the area Thursday night a northerly flow 
develops and winds diminish, however, ocean seas are likely to 
remain elevated into Thursday night.

&&

.HYDROLOGY...
There are no hydrologic concerns through next week.

&&

.OKX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CT...None.
NY...None.
NJ...None.
MARINE...Dense Fog Advisory until 9 AM EDT this morning for ANZ331-332-
     335-340.
     Small Craft Advisory from 6 AM to 6 PM EDT Sunday for ANZ331-
     332-335-338-340-345-350-353-355.

&&

$$

SYNOPSIS...MET/JT
NEAR TERM...JT
SHORT TERM...JT
LONG TERM...MET
AVIATION...MET
MARINE...MET/JT
HYDROLOGY...MET/JT
