089 
FXUS61 KOKX 151945
AFDOKX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service New York NY
345 PM EDT Sun Jun 15 2025

.SYNOPSIS...
High pressure shifts off the New England coast while a stationary
front remains draped to the south over the Mid Atlantic early this
week. A warm front moves through during Wednesday, followed by a 
cold front on Thursday. High pressure will then be in control 
Friday through the upcoming weekend.

&&

.NEAR TERM /UNTIL 6 AM MONDAY MORNING/...
High pressure remains off to the north and east tonight as a 
weak area of low pressure over the Ohio River Valley slides east
along a quasi stationary front over the southern Mid Atlantic.

Pesky area of light rain has plagued much of NYC, parts of NE NJ, 
and western LI today, but steadiest activity will continue to 
diminish and exit as axis shifts south into early evening. QPF 
is light where precip is occurring, a couple hundredths on the 
high side.

Drier air has tried to work in from the north and east, but has 
struggled to penetrate the region. Saturated low levels below 700 mb 
will maintain plenty in the way of cloud cover, and very weak 
convergence could spur additional pockets of drizzle or light rain 
into this evening and tonight, but coverage likely much more 
isolated. Closer to the high off to the north, drier conditions over 
much of southern CT and eastern LI, but cloud cover likely remains 
at least broken through tonight.

Coupled with easterly onshore winds, temperatures have been as much 
as 20 degrees below normal this afternoon, one of the coolest June 
days in several years. Temperatures largely remain steady overnight 
along the coast, generally around 60, though parts of the far 
interior could slip into the mid 50s.

&&

.SHORT TERM /6 AM MONDAY MORNING THROUGH MONDAY NIGHT/...
Flow remains easterly on Monday as the center of high pressure to 
the north shifts off into the northwest Atlantic. Subtle height 
rises with weak ridging aloft moving overhead.

Similar conditions to the close of the weekend, with cloud cover and 
cooler conditions. Lack of significant forcing should mitigate most 
precip development, but can't still can't rule out spotty light rain 
at any point in the period. Weak shortwave energy moving east 
thru the Mid Atlantic may instigate higher coverage, mainly to 
the south and west over NJ and PA, but this activity could work
in locally. Otherwise, generally remaining overcast over the 
south and west, with potential for thinning and maybe even peeks
of sun possible into southeastern CT.

The onshore marine flow and cloud cover will continue to limit 
temperatures, though a bit milder than Sunday, still running a 
good 10 degrees below normal for mid June, with afternoon highs 
topping out around 70 for most, and near 60 overnight.

&&

.LONG TERM /TUESDAY THROUGH SUNDAY/...
A shortwave will somewhat flatten an h5 ridge over the area on 
Tuesday. Plenty of moisture will be available, bringing chances of 
showers, but not anticipating thunderstorms as models agree with very 
limited to no CAPE. The shower threat increases Tuesday night 
through Wednesday with the approach of a warm front and associated 
lift, as well as few rounds of shortwave lift. The threat lowers for 
Wednesday afternoon with the warm front to the north and shortwave 
lift to our east. CAPE ramps up Wednesday afternoon as we'll be in 
the warm sector, but with less mechanical lift and some capping due 
to ridging in the wake of the shortwave passage, the thunderstorm 
threat would appear to be limited. With that said, the moisture 
content will be high Tuesday through Wednesday, so any showers could 
produce locally heavy rainfall. 

A shortwave then amplifies the h5 flow on Thursday with a trough 
axis approaching from the west, eventually passing through on 
Friday. An associated cold front is expected to pass through during 
Thursday night, but before then, a pre-frontal trough may act as a 
focus for convective development in an increasingly unstable air 
mass. SBCAPEs could climb to 1500-2500 J/kg away from the coast, and 
when combined with shear profiles, organized strong to severe 
thunderstorms could be possible. Machine-learning probability models 
and SPC's day 5 convective outlook support this severe thunderstorm 
threat. NBM has backed off on overall rain chances from yesterday's 
guidance, but is still showing at least a 40% chance from around the 
city to the Lower Hudson Valley and NE NJ. Leaned more toward the 
25th percentile NBM for highs on Thursday for most spots as the 
cooler deterministic numbers have been trending upward over the past 
couple of days. h8 temps progged at around 19C without too much 
convective debris should allow for highs in the mid 90s in the 
typically warmest spots. This coupled with dewpoints around 70 could 
have some heat impacts.

High pressure then builds in for Friday and remains in control 
through the weekend. Only a weak cold front may pass through during 
Friday night, but without much of consequence. If there's any chance 
of a shower or thunderstorm, it would more likely occur Friday 
afternoon with a cold pool aloft and steepening lapse rates. NBM 
limits PoPs to a slight chance well NW of the city Friday afternoon. 
Heights rise through the weekend, so a warming trend gets underway 
with highs ranging from the mid 80s at the coast to lower 90s inland 
for Sunday.

&&

.AVIATION /20Z SUNDAY THROUGH FRIDAY/...
A weak ridge of high pressure will remain across the area into 
Monday, while a stationary front and waves of low pressure along it 
remain to the south.

Improvement continues to be slow and have pushed back timing to high 
end MVFR 1-2 hours for some locations. Expect a mainly MVFR forecast 
for the NYC, KHPN and KISP terminals. To the north, KSWF and the CT 
terminals are forecast to see gradual improvement to VFR into this 
evening. MVFR likely returns to these locations late tonight into 
Monday morning. Occasional VFR is possible elsewhere the first half 
of tonight. There is low confidence for a period of IFR overnight. 

In addition, patches of light rain and/or sprinkles will be in close 
proximity to the NYC terminals. Little to no impact expected. 

NE to E winds generally less than 10 kt through the TAF period.
Winds may back more to the E/SE for a time this afternoon into early 
this evening.

    NY Metro (KEWR/KLGA/KJFK/KTEB) TAF Uncertainty...

Brief 3-5SM -RA into early this evening, mainly at KJFK and KEWR.

Chance of IFR late tonight into Monday morning. Low confidence at 
this time.

.OUTLOOK FOR 18Z MONDAY THROUGH FRIDAY... 

Monday Afternoon: Mainly MVFR.

Tuesday: MVFR, IFR possible. A chance of showers, mainly at night.

Wednesday: Chance of IFR in the morning, otherwise MVFR with a 
chance of showers and thunderstorms. 

Thursday: Mainly VFR. Chance of afternoon/evening showers and 
thunderstorms. SW G15-20kt. 

Friday: VFR. W G15-20kt. 

Detailed information, including hourly TAF wind component forecasts, 
can be found at: https:/www.weather.gov/zny/n90

&&

.MARINE...
Weak pressure gradient results in conditions remaining below 
Small Craft Advisory (SCA) criteria through Monday night.

For Tuesday through Saturday, winds and seas continue to prevail 
below SCA levels on the forecast waters. However, ocean seas and 
gusts may approach SCA levels late day Thursday into Thursday night 
with an increasing southwest flow ahead of a cold front.

&&

.HYDROLOGY...
Locally heavy downpours will be possible in any thunderstorms 
Wednesday and Thursday as the air mass will have plenty of moisture. 
The flash flooding threat will be mitigated by the speed of any 
cells and lack of a training signal in addition to the overall 
chances of showers and thunderstorms. So while flash flooding is not 
anticipated at this time, minor poor drainage flooding will still be 
possible both days. 

&&

.TIDES/COASTAL FLOODING...
A moderate risk of rip current development remains through the rest 
of today into this evening. The risk will once again be moderate for 
Monday across the Atlantic shores.

&&

.OKX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CT...None.
NY...None.
NJ...None.
MARINE...None.

&&

$$

SYNOPSIS...JC/DR
NEAR TERM...DR
SHORT TERM...DR
LONG TERM...JC
AVIATION...DW
MARINE...JC/DR
HYDROLOGY...JC/DR
TIDES/COASTAL FLOODING...JC
