010 
FXUS61 KOKX 291852
AFDOKX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service New York NY
152 PM EST Wed Jan 29 2025

.SYNOPSIS...
A clipper low passes to the north today and drags a cold front 
through the area this afternoon. High pressure briefly builds in 
tonight through Thursday. A frontal system impacts the area on 
Friday, with another, weaker one likely late Sunday into Monday.

&&

.NEAR TERM /THROUGH TONIGHT/...
A clipper system passes to the north this afternoon, dragging a
cold front through the area. Strong W/SW winds will gradually 
veer to the WNW behind the front. There is very good agreement 
with deep mixing, with many models showing peak mixing up to 
700mb. Not expecting winds to make it to the surface from the 
top of the layer, but even taking the 925mb winds is enough for 
45 mph gusts. Thus, a Wind Advisory will remain in effect until
10pm tonight for widespread 45 to 50 mph wind gusts. The peak 
of the gusts will likely be this afternoon.

Very weak instability forms ahead of the cold front and this 
will likely aid in afternoon scattered showers. For most this 
will fall as rain, but locations up in the Lower Hudson Valley 
could see snow or a rain/snow mix. The nature of this may also 
be more squall like, similar to yesterday, but again this threat
is more for north and west of the area.

Heights start to rise aloft tonight as the flow flattens. High 
pressure starts to build in at the surface. Winds gradually lower 
through the night, but remain gusty with 20 to 30 mph gusts
after midnight.

&&

.SHORT TERM /THURSDAY THROUGH THURSDAY NIGHT/...
High pressure continues to build in on Thursday and then pushes 
east Thursday night. A warm front from the next system 
approaches the area Thursday night. There is potential for some 
precipitation from this system to start as early as late 
Thursday night. If this is the case, some freezing rain is 
possible for any locations that drop to freezing ahead of the 
system. This would likely be the higher elevations of northeast 
NJ and then the Lower Hudson Valley into southwest CT. This 
threat will continue to be monitored, but for now only light ice
accumulation is expected.

&&

.LONG TERM /FRIDAY THROUGH TUESDAY/...
The modeling has trended swd with the track of the weak sfc low on 
Fri. This will allow the llvl cold air to remain locked in across 
the interior during the mrng hours, with fzra the result. The 
concern is that the swd trend continues, allowing nrn areas to stay 
fzra for most of the day. Dropped temps slightly from the NBM due to 
an expected warm bias in a CAD scenario. There is still time for the 
models to latch onto a consistent track - and when that occurs the 
higher res models will be in range to contribute to the 2m temp fcst.

The NBM has high pops for Fri ngt as the sys exits, which could lead 
to the impression that some decent snow could fall as temps drop. 
However, the modeling has been consistent that the h7 dry slot comes 
thru, cutting off any significant pcpn. Because of this, have 
included the transition to wintry wx, but have very little in the 
way of snow accums attm.

Dry and seasonably cool on Sat. Normal highs are about 40 for the 
climate sites. Fair wx to start Sun, then a warm front approaches 
and passes late Sun ngt. Some lgt snow possible, perhaps mixed with 
rain at the coasts. 

Thermal ridge builds in on Mon, so some milder high temps fcst and 
the NBM was followed. The city could hit 50. 

The next cold front comes thru Mon ngt per the 00Z runs. The front 
is moisture starved so the modeling indicates a dry fropa.

Fair and seasonal on Tue, albeit windy, with high pres building in 
all the way from wrn Canada.

&&

.AVIATION /18Z WEDNESDAY THROUGH MONDAY/...
Deepening low pressure passing to the north this afternoon will
drag a strong cold front through the area. The low tracks 
northeast tonight across the Canadian Maritimes with high 
pressure building in from the southwest.

WSW winds this afternoon 20-25kt G30-40kt will gradually veer 
around to the NW by early this evening. A few higher gusts are 
possible. There is also some uncertainty with how quickly winds 
fall off tonight and its possible some of these higher gusts 
continue a bit longer than forecast. Expect NW G20-25kt by 12Z 
Thursday, continuing to gradually drop through the day.

Showers along and ahead of the cold front will likely dissipate
and become widely scattered across the terminals this afternoon.
With the exception of KSWF, confidence is too low to mention at
any of the terminals. KSWF could see a brief rain/snow mix. 


...NY Metro (KEWR/KLGA/KJFK/KTEB) TAF Uncertainty...

Wind shift timing with the cold frontal passage may vary by an 
hour. Higher gusts of 35-40kt may linger into the first half of 
tonight.

.OUTLOOK FOR 18Z THURSDAY THROUGH MONDAY...

Thursday Afternoon/Night: Chance of MVFR or lower in rain late 
at night, possibly starting as freezing rain at KSWF.

Friday: Any freezing rain at KSWF in the morning changing to 
rain with MVFR or lower, possibly ending as light snow at KSWF
after midnight. SW winds G20kt NYC metro/coast.

Saturday: Becoming VFR in the morning. NW winds G20kt until around 
midday.

Sunday: Chance MVFR or lower conditions mainly at night, with 
snow changing to a wintry mix or rain. 

Monday: VFR. SW winds G15-20kt. 

Detailed information, including hourly TAF wind component forecasts, 
can be found at: https:/www.weather.gov/zny/n90

&&

.MARINE...
Only minor updates to the winds and gusts across the forecast 
waters, as both have been several knots lower than forecast.
Still expecting winds to increase late this morning and into
this afternoon with the passage of the cold front.

A Gale Warning is in effect for all waters as gusts up to 40 kt
are expected today. The Gale Warning is in effect through the 
first half of tonight before winds finally lower to SCA levels. 
25 kt gusts can then be expected into early Thursday. With cold 
air working into the area, light freezing spray is expected 
tonight across the LI Sound and ocean waters. Quiet marine 
conditions expected the rest of Thursday through the first half 
of Thursday night when the next frontal system approaches.

A SCA will likely be needed for Fri and Sat on the ocean, with mrgnl 
winds elsewhere. All waters blw SCA lvls Sun into Mon.

&&

.HYDROLOGY...
There are no hydrologic concerns through early next week.

&&

.OKX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CT...Wind Advisory until 10 PM EST this evening for CTZ005>012.
NY...Wind Advisory until 10 PM EST this evening for NYZ067>075-
     078>081-176>179.
NJ...Wind Advisory until 10 PM EST this evening for NJZ002-004-006-
     103>108.
MARINE...Gale Warning until 1 AM EST Thursday for ANZ331-332-335-338-
     340-345-350-353-355.

&&

$$

SYNOPSIS...JMC/JT
NEAR TERM...MET/JT
SHORT TERM...JT
LONG TERM...JMC
AVIATION...DW
MARINE...JMC/JT
HYDROLOGY...JMC/JT
