115 
FXUS61 KOKX 230531
AFDOKX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service New York NY
1231 AM EST Thu Jan 23 2025

.SYNOPSIS...
High pressure builds over the region tonight, shifting offshore
on Thursday. Weak low pressure passes offshore into Thursday 
night. High pressure builds across from the southwest Friday 
into Saturday. A cold front sweeps across Sunday, followed by 
another cold front Tuesday.

&&

.NEAR TERM /UNTIL 6 AM THIS MORNING/...
For tonight's update, cloud cover was dropped through the middle
of tonight before clouds increase from the west. THe lower 
cloud cover has also resulted in slightly colder temperatures 
in much of Suffolk and Nassau counties, which has been adjusted 
according. Otherwise, the forecast remains on track. 

High pressure builds over the region this evening, shifting 
offshore overnight.

A weak shortwave is currently passing north and is pushing some
high clouds through and to the east this evening, but no 
precipitation expected with such a dry air mass in place, 12Z 
OKX sounding progged PWATs at just 0.06 inches. Winds calm this 
evening as the center of the high moves overhead. While 
temperatures tonight not expected to be quite as extreme with 
the cloud cover, the calm wind and relatively fresh snowpack 
should once again allow locales to fall a bit below blended 
guidance, and went with bias corrected MAV/MET instead. With 
this, should still fall down into single digits and teens 
region wide, and the coldest could slip just below zero or 
close to it, mainly interior LoHud Valley, SW CT, and perhaps 
the LI Pine Barrens.

&&

.SHORT TERM /6 AM THIS MORNING THROUGH 6 PM FRIDAY/...
Core of the cold eases Thursday as offshore high pressure allows a 
light SW flow to develop, helping to moderate the air mass. 
Temperatures remain below normal though, and 925 mb temperatures -8C 
to -10C should translate into the 20s for most in the afternoon, or 
lower 30s along the coast.

A weak mid level shortwave continues to swing east on Thursday, 
though limited moisture and forcing will keep conditions dry 
locally. Rather, some mid and high clouds likely persist into the 
afternoon. Weak surface low develops offshore and passes east, 
enhancing the cloud cover over Long Island and southern CT into 
the early evening before skies clear out everywhere. Temperatures
Thursday night should fall back into the single digits inland, 
teens along the coast, and around 20 for the NYC metro.

&&

.LONG TERM /FRIDAY NIGHT THROUGH WEDNESDAY/...
The northern branch of the jet stream will continue to be the main 
driver in the weather regime across the region. Overall, a series of 
northern branch shortwaves will race nearby and move quickly 
through. The main function of this will be to reinforce cold and dry 
air into the region. Temperatures overall will continue to average 
below normal despite being at the coldest point of the season / year 
climatologically. There will be a few days where temperatures 
average near the climatological norms, with other days averaging 
noticeably below.

The main story, or lack thereof is that there appears to be no 
significant storms in sight throughout the long term period. A look 
at Ensemble sensitivity at 500 mb does indicate some uncertainty in 
the positioning / speed of perhaps subtle amounts of energy 
attempting to emerge out of the SW US. However, there doesn't appear 
to be enough uncertainty around meaningful energy getting east in 
the southern branch of the jet stream. This has downstream 
implications for our area in that any northern branch feature will 
not be able to interact or phase with southern stream energy, and 
thus any northern branch shortwaves should remain moisture starved. 
Overall the ensemble sensitivity add confidence for the cold and dry 
cP regime to continue.

Towards the tail end of the period the ensemble sensitivity appears 
to shift the uncertainty more towards the behavior of the northern 
branch of the jet stream. At this time there are varying solutions 
with respect to the deterministic and ensemble suite guidance with 
respect to 500 mb heights and thus thickness values along with 
subsequent sfc temperatures. Temperatures late in the period could 
range anywhere from near seasonable values to well below normal. 
Thus uncertainty around temperatures increase substantially towards 
Wednesday. This larger spread is easily seen in the NBM temperature 
distribution.

&&

.AVIATION /06Z THURSDAY THROUGH MONDAY/...
VFR with high pressure over the terminals tonight. The high weakens 
on Thursday as it moves to the south. 

Winds have gone light and variable at most terminals and are expected 
to remain so through early in the morning. SW winds under 10 kt then 
develop Thursday morning, inching closer to 10 kts in the afternoon. 
WInds will be W 5-10 kts Thursday evening into Thursday night. 

 ...NY Metro (KEWR/KLGA/KJFK/KTEB) TAF Uncertainty...

No unscheduled amendments expected. 

.OUTLOOK FOR 06Z THURSDAY THROUGH MONDAY...

Thursday Night-Friday: VFR. 

Saturday: VFR. W gusts 15-20 kt NYC metro/coastal terminals.

Sunday-Monday: VFR. W-WSW gusts 20-25 kt.  

Detailed information, including hourly TAF wind component forecasts, 
can be found at: https:/www.weather.gov/zny/n90

&&

.MARINE...
Sub small craft conditions prevail on all waters through Thursday.
Increasing NW flow may allow 25 kt gusts to develop on the ocean
Thursday night, otherwise, with a relatively light pressure 
gradient in place Friday into a good portion of Saturday sub 
advisory conditions are expected. 

Small craft conditions may develop on the ocean waters Saturday
night, with the potential for more widespread small craft 
conditions into Sunday and Monday.

&&

.HYDROLOGY...
No hydrologic issues are anticipated through this weekend.

&&

.OKX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CT...None.
NY...None.
NJ...None.
MARINE...None.

&&

$$

SYNOPSIS...JE/DR
NEAR TERM...JE/BR/DR
SHORT TERM...DR
LONG TERM...JE
AVIATION...BC/BR
MARINE...JE/DR
HYDROLOGY...JE/DR
