155 
FXUS61 KOKX 090043
AFDOKX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service New York NY
843 PM EDT Thu May 8 2025

.SYNOPSIS...
A frontal system and associated low will slowly track across the
area through Friday. A weak cold front will cross the region 
Saturday night, with high pressure building in for early next 
week. Another low pressure system approaches for the middle of 
next week.

&&

.NEAR TERM /UNTIL 6 AM FRIDAY MORNING/...
Shower intensity has lowered as well as lightning activity as
instability has decreased across the area. Some heavier showers
can not be completely ruled out, but it looks like the activity
should remain on the lighter side through the night. Intensity
looks to pick back up again Friday morning as an upr low 
currently over Ontario continues to drop swd tngt and low pres 
begins to develop with a theta-e ridge beginning to build into 
the area.

A flood watch is in effect for CT, NY north of NYC, and portions
of nrn NJ until late Fri ngt. This captures the chance for 
isold flash flooding through Fri as the low begins to wrap up. 
See the hydro section for more details.

There is a chance that some patchy fog develops tngt, particularly
ern cstl areas. Increasing clouds and the development of shwrs
appear to be limiting factors however, so it was kept out of the
fcst for now.

&&

.SHORT TERM /6 AM FRIDAY MORNING THROUGH FRIDAY NIGHT/...
Periods of rain with embedded tstms will continue on Fri, 
gradually tapering off from SW to NE late Fri ngt. 

Low pres likely tracks across the cwa during the day. This
should keep the heaviest rainfall across the nrn half of the
cwa, with a dry slot potentially limiting amounts from srn NJ
thru NYC and into LI. LI could be tricky however, with shwrs and
tstms developing ahead of the low which could overperform with
convection enhanced on the nose of the theta-e ridge and invof 
the warm front. Any change in track of the low will alter the 
rainfall distribution for this event.

Most of the tstm activity looks to be elevated, so the main
threat with this sys is expected to be the rain attm. Widespread
urban and poor drainage flooding, as well as some mainly minor
river flooding, are the expected primary impacts in the watch 
area.

Cooler temps on Fri with the rain and the NBM was followed
there.

&&

.LONG TERM /SATURDAY THROUGH THURSDAY/...
Dry weather is expected by midday Saturday with the low exiting to 
the northeast and high pressure gradually beginning to take over.

Another shortwave and associated surface cold front moves across the 
area Saturday night into early Sunday morning with Canadian high 
pressure building into its wake and gradually rising heights. 

The high will keep conditions dry through at least much of Tuesday. 
The next chance of precip comes by later Tuesday or Wednesday with 
the approach of the next low pressure system.

Temperatures through the long term will remain at or slightly above 
normal with highs in the 70s.

&&

.AVIATION /00Z FRIDAY THROUGH TUESDAY/...
A frontal system will remain stalled across the area into Friday
as a series of frontal waves track along it. The front will be 
dragged east in the afternoon and early evening as low pressure
lifts northeast of the area.

Outside of any showers the first half of tonight, expect mainly
VFR conditions. Ceilings and visibilities will lower late 
tonight as showers increase in coverage as low pressure 
approaches from the Mid Atlantic states. The one exception will 
be KSWF which is forecast to start off MVFR. Expect widespread 
IFR with pockets of LIFR on Friday with showers and embedded 
thunderstorms. The better chance for thunderstorms will be
across the terminals east of NYC, where there is PROB30 
18Z-22Z. Conditions will then begin to gradually improve from 
west to east during the late afternoon and evening hours. 

Winds will become NNE/E at 10 kt or less tonight, then become
more easterly around 10 kt at the coast on Friday. NYC and LI
terminals could become SE for time in the late morning/early
afternoon Friday. There also could be a few gusts 15-18kt at 
the coastal terminals.

 ...NY Metro (KEWR/KLGA/KJFK/KTEB) TAF Uncertainty...

Amendments likely through Friday with changing flight categories
and wind shifts. Winds could go SE late morning/early afternoon,
especially at KJFK. A few gusts 15-18kt possible.

There is low chance for thunderstorms. Confidence is too low at
this time to include in TAFs. 

.OUTLOOK FOR 00Z SATURDAY THROUGH TUESDAY...

Friday Night: MVFR/IFR in showers, mainly the first half of the
night. Gradual improvement overnight.

Saturday: Mainly VFR, except MVFR or lower possible isolated showers.

Sunday through Tuesday: VFR.

Detailed information, including hourly TAF wind component forecasts, 
can be found at: https:/www.weather.gov/zny/n90

&&

.MARINE...
Seas build on Fri as low pres develops S of the waters and then
tracks across LI. A sca has been issued on the ocean for this, 
lasting thru Fri ngt. Winds increase all areas late Fri ngt. 
Speeds are mrgnl so did not issue a sca on any of the protected 
waters for this.

SCA conditions could continue on the ocean waters through Saturday 
for marginal 25kt gusts and 5 ft seas. Thereafter, conditions look 
to remain below SCA.

&&

.HYDROLOGY...
Around 1.5 to 2 inches of additional rainfall can be expected 
thru Fri ngt. Locally higher amounts are possible in heavier
showers/thunderstorms. The RFC ensembles indicate minor river 
flooding possible across CT. FFG is lowest across NJ into NY. 
For these reasons, a Flood Watch is in effect for all areas N 
of NYC and LI, including portions of nrn NJ zones. Some areas 
of minor urban and poor drainage flooding can be expected 
outside of the watch area as well, but the more significant 
flood risk in low attm. 

There are no hydrologic concerns Saturday through mid next 
week.

&&

.OKX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CT...Flood Watch through late Friday night for CTZ005>012.
NY...Flood Watch through late Friday night for NYZ067>071.
NJ...Flood Watch through late Friday night for NJZ002-004-103-104.
MARINE...Small Craft Advisory from noon Friday to 6 AM EDT Saturday for 
     ANZ350-353-355.

&&

$$

SYNOPSIS...JMC/JT
NEAR TERM...JMC/JT
SHORT TERM...JMC
LONG TERM...JT
AVIATION...DW
MARINE...JMC/JT
HYDROLOGY...JMC/JT
