382 
FXUS61 KOKX 301522
AFDOKX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service New York NY
1122 AM EDT Wed Apr 30 2025

.SYNOPSIS...
High pressure will be in control through Thursday. A warm front 
approaches Thursday night and lifts through the region on
Friday. A cold front then passes through the region Saturday 
into Saturday night, with a wave of low pressure developing 
along it as does so. High pressure then attempts to build in 
from the north and west into early next week, while an upper low
meanders nearby.

&&

.NEAR TERM /THROUGH TONIGHT/...
Forecast on track this morning. The cold front has moved east of
the region any any light rain showers have ended. 

High pressure will build in from the NW for the rest of the day
and through tonight. Still somewhat breezy through at least 
early afternoon before winds become lighter later today. A dry 
NW flow will promote above-normal temperatures with some 
compressional heating via downsloping, and for south-facing 
coasts, winds should be strong enough to prevent sea breezes 
pushing in during the day. Leaned more toward the NBM 50th 
percentile, which is warmer than the deterministic NBM given the
temperatures at the top of the mixed layer. See the fire 
weather section below for potential impacts of the dry and 
breezy conditions.

The surface ridge axis moves into the forecast area tonight with 
winds continuing to weaken. Strong radiational cooling conditions 
should therefore develop in the usual spots as winds become calm and 
cirrus probably holds off through the night. NBM as usual looks too 
warm for these areas, so instead blended MET and MAV MOS. This 
results in lows in the mid-upper 30s well NW of city and in parts of 
the LI Pine Barrens Region, however no frost concerns at this time.

&&

.SHORT TERM /THURSDAY THROUGH FRIDAY NIGHT/...
Surface ridge axis will be over or just to our east through the day 
on Thursday with still some slight ridging aloft. This will keep us 
dry through the daytime hours. High temperatures near normal.

Surface low pressure shifts NE through the Great Lakes Region during 
Thursday night. A leading warm front is progged to reach our 
doorstep by daybreak Friday. Increased moisture with 850mb theta-e 
advection and isentropic lift bring chances (40-50%) of light 
rain/drizzle/showers during the night.

The warm front lifts north through the area on Friday with mainly 
afternoon and nighttime showers and thunderstorms possible as a cold 
front approaches. While strong thunderstorms will be possible for 
roughly the western half of the forecast area based on progged CAPE 
and shear profiles in the afternoon and evening, severe storms are 
not anticipated at this time. No flooding impacts are expected 
either. NBM looked good for high temps, but adjusted downward in 
some spots with a southerly flow expected off the waters.

&&

.LONG TERM /SATURDAY THROUGH TUESDAY/...
An unsettled start (at least) to the long term as a cold front works 
east through the region Saturday. Guidance still indicates frontal 
wave development along the nearby boundary, likely enhancing 
rainfall and leading to periods of showers much of the day. Can't 
rule out a few thunderstorms as well, though instability appears 
relatively low and severe weather is not expected.

Thereafter, wildly diverging solutions amongst global guidance 
continues to lead to considerable uncertainty and low confidence 
into next week. One camp, which includes the GFS/GEFS, has a less 
amplified, more progressive trough that advances far enough east 
before closing off into an upper low near the Canadian Maritimes. 
This allows high pressure to build in locally and dries the region 
out. Meanwhile, EPS and GEPS members largely have a sharper, slower 
trough that closes off to our west, meandering within the Eastern 
CONUS for several days and leading to a much more dreary and wet 
outlook. The 00Z ECM, for example, advertises a washout, producing 4 
to 5 inches of rainfall across portions of the local Tri State thru 
Monday, with more beyond that as the system lingers thru mid next 
week. The same run of the GFS yields barely a half inch, all with 
the frontal wave on Saturday. With this large spread, used the 
national blend for PoPs, yielding chance (25-40%) Sunday and beyond. 
The associated energy is just moving onshore western Canada, and 
additional sampling over the next day or so should help resolve the 
solution.

Given the potential for these persistent unsettled conditions, 
temperatures will be highly dependent on the synoptic outcome and 
have stayed close to consensus with this update.

&&

.AVIATION /16Z WEDNESDAY THROUGH SUNDAY/...
A cold front tracking through the region pushes offshore late
this morning. High pressure builds in thereafter from the north
and west. 

VFR thru the TAF period. 

Winds will be NE near 15 kt with gusts around 20 to 25 kt 
expected through this afternoon. Gusts diminish early this 
evening across the region, with decreasing flow veering 
northerly toward daybreak Thursday, then SE by Thursday 
afternoon.

 ...NY Metro (KEWR/KLGA/KJFK/KTEB) TAF Uncertainty...

Timing of gust onset/cessation may be off by an hour or two.

.OUTLOOK FOR 12Z THURSDAY THROUGH SUNDAY...

Thursday: VFR. 

Thursday night: Chance of showers after midnight with MVFR cond 
possible. 

Friday: Chance showers/tstms with MVFR or lower cond from mid 
afternoon into the night. S winds G20kt at the NYC metros and along 
the coast. 

Saturday: Showers likely and possibly a tstm with MVFR or lower cond 
expected. 

Sunday: Chance of showers with MVFR cond likely. 

Detailed information, including hourly TAF wind component forecasts, 
can be found at: https:/www.weather.gov/zny/n90

&&

.MARINE...
SCA remains on the two eastern ocean zones at this point, and 
this will be due mainly to residual elevated wave heights. Sub- 
advisory conditions by late afternoon, continuing through Friday
morning. With southerly winds increasing Friday afternoon, 
expecting a return to SCA conditions at least on the ocean and 
possibly on some of the other waters as well. 

Ocean seas may linger near 5 ft thru late Saturday before lowering. 
Sub SCA conditions then expected on all waters early next week.

&&

.FIRE WEATHER...
NW winds pick up and will likely gust to around 25 mph at times 
through early afternoon. Winds then likely to diminish thereafter. 
Minimum RH levels are expected to be 20 to 30 percent, resulting in 
an elevated risk of fire spread. Special Weather Statements have 
been collaborated with state agencies and remain posted for all of 
our NY, NJ, and CT zones today.

&&

.HYDROLOGY...
There are no hydrologic concerns through the forecast period.

&&

.OKX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CT...None.
NY...None.
NJ...None.
MARINE...Small Craft Advisory until 2 PM EDT this afternoon for ANZ350-
     353.

&&

$$

SYNOPSIS...JC/DR
NEAR TERM...BC/JC
SHORT TERM...JC
LONG TERM...DR
AVIATION...JM/DR
MARINE...BC/JC/DR
FIRE WEATHER...
HYDROLOGY...JC/DR
