414 
FXUS61 KOKX 100535
AFDOKX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service New York NY
135 AM EDT Sat May 10 2025

.SYNOPSIS...
Low pressure will exit the Tri-State area overnight with weak 
high pressure building in behind it for Saturday. A surface 
trough or another weak cold front then slowly works through the 
area on Sunday as high pressure continues to build in. The high 
remains in control through much of Tuesday. Unsettled weather 
returns the rest of next week as a slow, broad low pressure 
system approaches from the south.

&&

.NEAR TERM /UNTIL 6 AM THIS MORNING/...
An upper level low can be seen very well on satellite water 
vapor just west of the area, moving into eastern PA. Latest 
surface analysis shows the surface low centered just east of
NYC. The latter of which will work slowly into southern New 
England during the early morning hours. The deepest moisture, 
instability and lift from a low level jet has shifted east along
with the heaviest rain. As the upper level low moves through 
there will be additional showers, mainly light and scattered.

&&

.SHORT TERM /6 AM THIS MORNING THROUGH 6 PM SUNDAY/...
Mid level low and shortwave exit east early on Saturday, allowing 
for weak high pressure building in through Saturday evening with 
more of a zonal flow aloft. Generally fewer clouds in the afternoon 
versus the morning hours as moisture centered near 850mb diminishes. 
A gusty WNW flow should prevent sea breeze development, and 
contribute to some downslope compressional heating. This combined 
with 5-6C 850mb temps likely yield "full sun" high temperatures 
warmer than deterministic NBM. Didn't want to stray too far from NBM 
due to uncertainty of how long mostly cloudy conditions last into 
the day along with the potential of afternoon cumulus development.

A weak cold front then moves through late Saturday night, but with 
not enough moisture for a shower threat. NBM looked good for low 
temps.

&&

.LONG TERM /SUNDAY NIGHT THROUGH FRIDAY/...
A surface trough or weak cold front slowly works through the area on 
Sunday, as well as the associated upper level trough axis. High 
pressure builds in behind this and remains in control through much 
of Tuesday, leading to a few days on warm and dry weather. The 
weather becomes unsettled again late Tuesday through the end of next 
week as a cutoff low over the southern Plains starts to slowly lift 
towards our area. Stuck pretty close to NBM PoPs, which has chances 
from late Tuesday through the end of next week. At this time there 
does not look to be a lot of instability available. The best chances 
for any thunder looks to be Thursday afternoon, but low confidence 
right now and have removed it from the forecast.

High temperatures are in the 60s and 70s the entire forecast. Some 
tweaks were made to the NBM, especially on Sunday where we should be 
able to overachieve given the very light northerly flow and plenty 
of sunshine, specifically across Long Island and coastal CT. Lows 
will be in the 50s and 60s, except for Sunday night when good 
radiational cooling conditions should be able to bring the cold 
spots down to the 40s.

&&

.AVIATION /06Z SATURDAY THROUGH WEDNESDAY/...
Low pressure over the area will track slowly east overnight 
with gradually improving conditions.

Conditions will gradually improve over the next several hours
with much of the NYC metro becoming VFR already. While some
reductions back to MVFR remain possible through the morning
push, generally improving categories are expected from west to
east through the morning. Eastern terminals may not improve to
VFR until after daybreak and into the late morning or early
afternoon, specifically KGON.

There will be also be widely scattered showers into the morning
hours as the upper low moves across the area. The best chance 
will across the CT terminals and KSWF.

Winds will vary quite a bit across the area to start as the low
tracks slowly east. Behind the low, winds will go around to the
WNW at 10kt or less and then gradually ramp up toward daybreak,
increasing to 15 to 20kt with G25-30kt by mid to late morning. 

     ...NY Metro (KEWR/KLGA/KJFK/KTEB) TAF Uncertainty...

Timing of improving flight categories tonight could be off by 
2-3 hours. 

A few gusts may exceed 30 kt on Saturday.

.OUTLOOK FOR 06Z SUNDAY THROUGH WEDNESDAY...

Saturday Night: VFR with diminishing W/NW winds. 

Sunday through Tuesday: VFR.

Wednesday: MVFR or lower possible in showers.

Detailed information, including hourly TAF wind component forecasts, 
can be found at: https:/www.weather.gov/zny/n90

&&

.MARINE...
SCA on the ocean remains in effect until late afternoon Saturday. 
There is a chance that the ocean waters east of Moriches Inlet see 
up to 5 ft seas into early evening, but will leave the end time of 
the advisory for the time being. Did however issue an advisory for 
the non-ocean waters for Saturday as winds become gusty with a WNW 
flow. Diminishing winds and seas for Saturday night. 

All waters likely remain below Small Craft Advisory criteria Sunday 
through the end of next week. On Sunday, use caution if out on the 
water as air temperatures will be in the 70s, but water temperatures 
are still in the mid 50s.

&&

.HYDROLOGY...
There are no hydrologic concerns Saturday through through the 
end of next week.

&&

.OKX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CT...None.
NY...None.
NJ...None.
MARINE...Small Craft Advisory from 6 AM this morning to 5 PM EDT this 
     afternoon for ANZ331-332-335-338-340-345.
     Small Craft Advisory until 5 PM EDT this afternoon for ANZ350-
     353-355.

&&

$$

SYNOPSIS...JC/JT
NEAR TERM...JC/JT
SHORT TERM...JC
LONG TERM...JT
AVIATION...MW
MARINE...JC/JT
HYDROLOGY...JC/JT
