728 
FXUS61 KOKX 092105
AFDOKX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service New York NY
405 PM EST Thu Jan 9 2025

.SYNOPSIS...
Low pressure near the Canadian Maritimes will slowly push 
northeast, while high pressure to the west builds in through 
Friday. An upper level disturbance will then pivot through the 
area late Friday night into Saturday, while deepening low 
pressure passes to the south and east. High pressure follows 
late Saturday into Sunday, but then weakens Monday as cold front
approaches. High pressure will then return for the middle of 
next week.

&&

.NEAR TERM /THROUGH FRIDAY/...
The upper low over the Canadian Maritimes continues to work slowly
out into the North Atlantic with a building ridge moving in from
the west. This will allow for the strong NW flow to finally begin
to weaken. The Wind Advisory remains in effect until 10 pm. 
Gusts of 45 to 50 mph will still be possible through early this 
evening and then gradually weaken into Friday morning. 

High pressure weakens while building in from the west on Friday,
basically dissipating between the departing low and the incoming
upper trough moving into the Great Lakes. Gusts should be gone 
by afternoon. 

Lows tonight will be in the lower to mid 20s with highs on 
Friday in the upper 30s to around 40. These values are close to
normal.

&&

.SHORT TERM /FRIDAY NIGHT THROUGH SATURDAY/...
An incoming upper trough from the Great Lakes and a southern
branch low traversing the southern states will not phase until
well offshore. This had been a possibility earlier in the week
with the potential for a significant winter storm along the east
coast. A secondary low will develop along the Carolina coast 
Friday night, tracking well south and east of the area on 
Saturday. This will keep the area well north of the heavier
precipitation associated with the low, however, there is the 
potential for a period light snow and/or flurries late Friday 
night into Saturday afternoon as an amplifying upper trough 
works across the area. Model consensus produces a low chance 
for snow with liquid equivalent amounts only a few hundredths of
an inch. This will allow for a potential coating to as much as 
half an inch of snowfall. The NAM in particular was a bit more 
aggressive with a 1-2 tenths of liquid equivalent but has 
backed off some at 18Z. This seems to be due to a slight northward
trend in the low due to the Great Lakes trough amplifying some.
This trend was also seen in some of the other guidance, but 
impact has been minimal. A worse case scenario at this time
would be for an inch or two of snowfall. 

Clouds will lower and thicken Friday night with chance of light
snow overspreading the area before daybreak, being a mainly
morning into early afternoon event for Saturday. Winds will
generally be light during this time with a strengthening NW 
flow behind the low Saturday afternoon.

Lows Friday night will be a bit warmer in the lower 20s to
around 30, warmest across the NYC metro. Highs Saturday will be
in the lower to mid 30s generally under cloudy conditions. 

&&

.LONG TERM /SATURDAY NIGHT THROUGH THURSDAY/...
Following a frontal passage and an exiting low to the east, an upper-
level ridge will build in Saturday night from the west, centering 
itself over the area on Sunday. This ridge will eventually exit 
early Monday. High pressure will move in at the surface from the 
southwest during this timeframe. 

Its likely that Saturday night could be breezy with some gusty NW 
flow due to the exiting low still in the vicinity causing a 
tightening pressure gradient. Clouds will clear out early Saturday 
night thanks to high pressure moving in. 

Sunday into Monday the winds lighten and turn SW allowing 
temperatures to moderate themselves, warming into the upper-30s to 
low-40s Sunday and Monday afternoons. Given the light winds and 
mostly clear skies expected during this timeframe, we'll have 
optimal radiational cooling conditions keeping nightly low 
temperatures cooler in the teens to 20s. 

An upper-level low deepens over the Great Lakes region Monday, 
moving over the northeast US early Tuesday before pushing offshore 
on Wednesday where it will linger through Thursday keeping heights 
lowered aloft through this time period. This upper-level low will 
bring a dry cold front through early on Tuesday. Following this 
front, strong NW winds will settle in the remainder of Tuesday and 
into Wednesday as our region remains sandwiched between a tight 
pressure gradient caused by low pressure to our east and high 
pressure to our west. This pressure gradient will lessen Wednesday 
night into Thursday allowing winds to weaken. Overall, winds do not 
look to be as impactful next week as they have been this week given 
weaker winds forecasted in the lower levels. However, conditions are 
still expected to be cold and blustery Tuesday through Thursday. 
Tuesday highs will be in the mid-30s, followed by near or below 
freezing highs Wednesday and Thursday. Overnight lows will drop into 
the low-20s to mid-teens each night Tue-Thu. 

&&

.AVIATION /21Z THURSDAY THROUGH TUESDAY/...
The terminals will remain between strong low pressure to the 
northeast and strong high pressure to the west. High pressure
weakens on Friday.

VFR. 

Northwest flow around 300-310 true through the TAF period. Gusts
35-40 kt through early this evening with peak gusts around 45 kt. 
Winds begin to diminish after 00-01z with gusts decreasing to 30-35 
kt and then 25-30 kt overnight into early Friday morning. Gusts
look to shut off sometime around 18z on Friday.

     NY Metro (KEWR/KLGA/KJFK/KTEB) TAF Uncertainty...

Occasional peak gusts around 45 kt possible into early this evening.

OUTLOOK FOR 21Z FRIDAY THROUGH TUESDAY...

Friday Afternoon: VFR.

Friday Night-Saturday: Chance of light snow and MVFR. NW gusts 
20 kt possible late Saturday. 

Sunday-Tuesday: VFR. 

Detailed information, including hourly TAF wind component forecasts, 
can be found at: https:/www.weather.gov/zny/n90

&&

.MARINE...
Gales remain up for all waters and will likely drop below
criteria toward daybreak Friday. Low pressure near the Canadian
Maritimes will lift out into the North Atlantic while high
pressure builds in from the west. SCA conditions likely linger
into the morning hours Friday. 

The next chance for SCA conditions are possible Saturday night 
into early Sunday on the ocean behind a departing offshore low 
pressure. Otherwise, high pressure builds towards the waters 
Sunday night into early next week allowing winds and seas to 
remain below SCA levels.

&&

.HYDROLOGY...
No hydrologic issues are anticipated through the middle of next
week.

&&

.OKX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CT...Wind Advisory until 10 PM EST this evening for CTZ005>012.
NY...Wind Advisory until 10 PM EST this evening for NYZ067>075-
     078>081-176>179.
NJ...Wind Advisory until 10 PM EST this evening for NJZ002-004-006-
     103>108.
MARINE...Gale Warning until 6 AM EST Friday for ANZ331-332-335-338-340-
     345-350-353-355.

&&

$$

SYNOPSIS...BR/DW
NEAR TERM...DW
SHORT TERM...DW
LONG TERM...BR
AVIATION...JT
MARINE...BR/DW
HYDROLOGY...BR/DW
