296 
FXUS61 KOKX 010915
AFDOKX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service New York NY
515 AM EDT Thu May 1 2025

.SYNOPSIS...
High pressure remains in control today as the center shifts off the 
New England coast. A warm front approaches tonight and lifts through 
the region into Friday morning. A cold front then slowly approaches
Saturday into Saturday night, with a wave of low pressure 
developing along it. This frontal system may linger near the area
through early next week, as a cutoff upper low develops to the 
southwest.

&&

.NEAR TERM /THROUGH TONIGHT/...
Upper ridge axis shifts overhead today as surface high pressure 
drifts off Cape Cod.

Dry conditions expected thru the day. Winds veer SE into the 
afternoon as the high moves offshore, and the resultant onshore flow 
limits temperatures along the coast with SSTs still in the low 50s. 
Highs here top out in the upper 50s to mid 60s, with lower 70s 
expected away from the marine influence in the LoHud Valley and NE 
NJ.

As the high shifts further east tonight, low pressure tracks into 
the Great Lakes with the associated warm front approaching the local 
region. This introduces increased cloud cover, along with the chance 
for showers late tonight into Friday morning. Can't rule out a 
spotty thunderstorm with this activity either, but coverage overall 
appears limited, and some locales may not see precipitation. The 
front lifts through toward daybreak, and could see areas of fog 
break out in its wake into Friday morning as the shower activity 
exits.

&&

.SHORT TERM /FRIDAY THROUGH SATURDAY NIGHT/...
A more active pattern looks to develop in this period, with an 
increasing likelihood of unsettled conditions persisting thru at
least early next week.

Behind the warm fropa early Fri AM, a much warmer air mass advects 
in on deep SW flow. Any fog around in the morning burns off and S/SW 
flow and deep mixing allow temps west of the Hudson to rise into the 
80s, or a good 15 degrees above climo for early May, while coastal 
areas remain in the 60s to around 70.

As the East Coast ridging shifts farther offshore, several northern 
stream shortwaves dig a trough from the Canadian Plains into the 
Mississippi River Valley Friday into Saturday. The pre-frontal 
trough approaches western portions of the area Friday aft/eve, 
bringing the potential for scattered showers and thunderstorms, 
mainly for NYC and points N&W in a weakly forced, but marginally 
unstable/modest shear environment. A more stable airmass along the 
coast will likely have any convection dissipating as it overspreads 
the coast and encounters this environment. Conversely, could be 
dealing with stratus/fog development for southern and eastern 
coastal areas late Friday into Sat with moist onshore flow over cold 
waters (lower 50 SSTs). CSU MLP still indicates a marginal severe 
threat, which seems conditionally possible.

Perhaps a better chance for organization of scattered shower and 
thunderstorm activity ahead of the approaching cold front Saturday 
afternoon and evening for NYC and points NW once again with approach 
of northern shortwave in a marginally unstable and strong deep layer 
shear environment. Although airmass is similar on Friday to 
Saturday, potential for more in the way of convective debris on 
Saturday limiting full insolation.

Better agreement amongst global guidance relative to this time 
yesterday, with most ensemble members now signaling a cutoff low
closes off to the SW of the region this weekend thru early next
week as an omega blocking pattern develops across the Eastern 
US into Western Atlantic. The result being the aforementioned 
cold front stalling to the west of the region and strong 
Canadian maritime high to the NE leading to a persistent Atlantic
subtropical moisture flow into next week.

&&

.LONG TERM /SUNDAY THROUGH WEDNESDAY/...
The combo of a cutoff upper low developing over the Ohio Valley and 
an amplifying upper high over the western Atlantic will be the main 
drivers of sensible wx for the area. A feed of subtropical Atlantic 
moisture into the area between these two systems will keep us 
unsettled through the period and offer the likelihood of some 
periods of heavier showers, whose exact timing and rainfall amts are 
still uncertain. Latest guidance suggests best time frames for 
heavier rainfall may be Sunday night into Mon morning and more so 
Tue into Tue night. Latest ECMWF ensemble is focusing in more on 
Tue, showing higher probabilities of 1-2 inches in 24 hours in that 
time frame, and 90th percentile QPF of over 3 inches. 

&&

.AVIATION /09Z THURSDAY THROUGH MONDAY/...
High pressure passing to the north will move off the coast this 
afternoon. A warm front will approach tonight. 

VFR for most of the period, with generally light N-NE winds becoming 
E this morning and then SE around 10 kt this afternoon. With the 
approach of the warm front, some MVFR cigs should move into the NYC 
metro area and across Long Island after midnight. 

 ...NY Metro (KEWR/KLGA/KJFK/KTEB) TAF Uncertainty...

No unscheduled AMD expected. 

.OUTLOOK FOR 06Z FRIDAY THROUGH MONDAY...

Late tonight: IFR cond likely/LIFR possible with the approach of the 
warm front. Scattered/numerous showers and an isolated tstm 
possible. 

Friday: MVFR or lower cond to start should improve to VFR by late 
morning after warm fropa, then showers/tstms possible in the 
afternoon and at night. S winds G15-20 kt in the afternoon. 

Saturday: MVFR or lower cond possible with chance of showers/tstms. 
thunderstorms. S winds G15-20kt. 

Sunday: MVFR or lower cond possible with chance of showers/tstms. 

Monday: MVFR or lower cond possible with chance of showers. E-NE 
winds G15-20kt. 

Detailed information, including hourly TAF wind component forecasts, 
can be found at: https:/www.weather.gov/zny/n90
0

&&

.MARINE...
Winds and seas remain low through tonight with high pressure near 
the region. 

Marginal S/SW SCA gusts possible on the ocean Fri aft/eve and then 
once again Sat aft/eve with approach of cold front. More confidence 
in ocean seas building to 5 ft during this time, lingering into 
Sunday based on persistent S/SW flow. 

Residual 5-ft ocean seas Sunday morning should subside by afternoon. 
Increasing E flow on Mon may bring minimal SCA cond to the ocean 
waters, with E winds gusting to 20-25 kt and seas building to 5
ft. 

&&

.FIRE WEATHER...
Light southeasterly flow 5 to 10 mph develops by late morning or 
early afternoon today. RH values drop to 25 to 35 percent by late 
morning, increasing above 40 percent along the coast by the 
afternoon with strengthening onshore flow. A wetting rain is 
possible overnight into Friday.

&&

.HYDROLOGY...
There is potential for heavy rain of over 2 inches next week, but 
timing/duration of any heavier periods of rain and exact amounts 
remain uncertain.

&&

.OKX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CT...None.
NY...None.
NJ...None.
MARINE...None.

&&

$$

SYNOPSIS...BG/DR
NEAR TERM...DR
SHORT TERM...DR
LONG TERM...BG
AVIATION...BG
MARINE...BG/DR
FIRE WEATHER...DR
HYDROLOGY...BG/DR
