074 
FXUS61 KOKX 310633
AFDOKX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service New York NY
133 AM EST Fri Jan 31 2025

.SYNOPSIS...
An approaching frontal system approaching will impact the area
today and tonight. High pressure will then build across from
Saturday into Saturday night, and give way to an approaching
frontal system on Sunday, with a warm front moving through
Sunday night, followed by a cold frontal passage late Monday. 
High pressure will briefly follow through Tuesday night, giving
way to yet another frontal system Wednesday into Thursday. 

&&

.NEAR TERM /UNTIL 6 AM THIS MORNING/...
A warm front associated with low pressure over the Ohio Valley
will approach from the southwest. Light overrunning rainfall 
has reached DC/Baltimore metro and the adjacent Delmarva 
peninsula, and high resolution model guidance agrees that this 
should reach the NYC metro area by 10Z-11Z, then start entering
W Passaic/Rockland/Westchester and parts of N Fairfield which
are covered by a Winter Wx Advy shortly afterward, where sfc 
temps should be cold enough to allow for freezing rain, as 
temperatures aloft warm more quickly. Still looking at just 
trace amounts to a few hundredths of an inch of freezing rain, 
so no changes to the headlines. There is a chance the 
precipitation will hold off until after daybreak across 
Orange/Putnam and most of srn CT. This would possibly allow 
temperatures to warm even more before the precip arrives. 

&&

.SHORT TERM /6 AM THIS MORNING THROUGH 6 PM SATURDAY/...
Winter weather advisories continue through 10 AM across portions 
of the interior as rain/freezing rain overspread the region this
morning. Temperatures should quickly rise above freezing by mid
morning. With low pressure passing over the region today into
this evening, expect a cloudy, cool rainy day, with highs in the
40s. 

The precipitation tapers off Friday night as the low departs. As the 
precip ends, there may be just enough cold air for some light
snowflakes to fall, especially across portions of the Lower 
Hudson Valley and southern CT. No accumulations are expected at 
this time. Lows tonight fall into the upper 20s and 30s, so some
icy spots are possible, especially untreated surfaces. 

&&

.LONG TERM /SATURDAY NIGHT THROUGH THURSDAY/...
A fast, nearly zonal flow will dominant the forecast period as
multiple frontal systems impact the area with brief stints of 
high pressure in between. The biggest issue during this time 
will be timing, especially with the system that will impact the 
area for the middle of next week. Stayed close to the NBM during
this time due to the fast flow and greater spread developing 
late in the period.

High pressure follows Saturday into Saturday night behind 
departing low pressure. A gusty NW flow and near seasonable 
temperatures are forecast during this time. Low pressure
tracking north of the Great Lakes Sunday and into eastern 
Canada Monday, will send a warm front across the area Sunday 
night, followed by a cold frontal passage late Monday. A light 
warm advection event is forecast Sunday night with a rain/snow 
mix inland and mainly rain at the coast. While there is some 
decent thermal forcing ahead of the warm front, airmass lacks 
moisture and will take some time to saturate. The looks to be 
a light QPf event with liquid equivalent amounts likely to be 
under a tenth of an inch. Temperatures will drop little Sunday 
night with cloud cover and an increasing southerly flow. In 
fact, temperatures will likely begin to rise. Far interior 
locations should be close to freezing at the onset, but then 
gradually rise. Any snowfall accumulations across the interior 
at this time look to be minor. Temperatures in the warm sector 
rebound quite nicely Monday getting well into the 40s, possibly 
50 for some locations. 

High pressure and a shot of cold air briefly follows Tuesday 
into Tuesday night, with another low track well to the north 
Wednesday into Thursday, driving another frontal system across 
the area. The operational 12Z global guidance features some 
large timing issues, with the GFS being on the slower side of 
the overrunning precipitation. This looks like another snow to 
rain event, but it is much too early to be specific with 
impacts. The frontal system due to the westerly flow aloft is 
rather slow to pass through on Thursday as the cold front lays 
down some as it approaches from the west. The NBM shows quite a 
temperature spread during this time. For example there is a 25 
degree spread noted between the 25th and 75th percentiles for 
highs on Thursday. This theme is apparent across most locations 
with a little spread at the coast.

&&

.AVIATION /06Z FRIDAY THROUGH TUESDAY/...
Low pressure approaches from the west through today with a warm 
front nearing the coast. A cold front moves through tonight.

VFR until around 09Z, then conditions quickly lower to MVFR and then 
IFR with localized LIFR as precipitation enters and spreads across 
the area. Mainly rain is expected, with a period of light freezing 
rain at KSWF early this morning. There is a low chance of a brief 
period of freezing rain at KTEB and KHPN early this morning, 
but with such low chances and confidence, did not include in the
TAF. All terminals, including KSWF, expected to have plain rain
after 15Z. 

Winds during much of the TAF period will be SW near 10 kts or 
less. Some terminals outside of NYC will experience light winds 
at or less than 5 kts with variable direction. 

Late tonight, KSWF will have a brief rain and snow mix before all 
precipitation eventually tapers off from west to east. Winds
eventually become more NW and increase to near 10 kts.

 ...NY Metro (KEWR/KLGA/KJFK/KTEB) TAF Uncertainty...

Amendments likely for timing of onset of precipitation, rain, and 
lowering conditions to MVFR, IFR, and possibly LIFR.

.OUTLOOK FOR 06Z SATURDAY THROUGH TUESDAY...

Late tonight: Mainly IFR with localized LIFR. Rain, mainly east
of NYC terminals. A rain/snow mix possible for KSWF before all 
the precipitation ends. Becoming MVFR to VFR toward Saturday 
morning across western terminals.

Saturday: Becoming VFR in the morning for all terminals. NW
winds 10-15 kts with gusts near 20 kts.

Sunday: VFR during the day, a chance of MVFR or lower conditions at 
night, with rain along the coast and rain and snow inland.

Monday - Tuesday: VFR. 

Detailed information, including hourly TAF wind component forecasts, 
can be found at: https:/www.weather.gov/zny/n90

&&

.MARINE...
SCA remains in effect for the ocean waters through early this
afternoon, where wind gusts may come close to 25 kt and seas
building to 5 ft. Winds continue to diminish tonight, but seas
should build back to 5 ft on the ocean. 

A gusty N flow on Sat behind departing low pressure will produce
gusts over 25 kt on the ocean waters, with a S swell allowing
seas to build to 5-8 ft. Winds and seas then diminish quickly
Sat night with high pressure building from the west. 

There is potential for marginal SCA cond on the ocean waters
Sunday night into Mon with another frontal system moving across. 

&&

.HYDROLOGY...
There are no hydrologic concerns attm. 

&&

.OKX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CT...Winter Weather Advisory from 4 AM to 10 AM EST this morning 
     for CTZ005-006.
NY...Winter Weather Advisory from 4 AM to 10 AM EST this morning 
     for NYZ067>070.
NJ...Winter Weather Advisory from 4 AM to 10 AM EST this morning 
     for NJZ002.
MARINE...Small Craft Advisory until 1 PM EST this afternoon for ANZ350-
     353.
     Small Craft Advisory until 7 AM EST this morning for ANZ355.

&&

$$

SYNOPSIS...BC/DW
NEAR TERM...BC/JP/DW
SHORT TERM...BC
LONG TERM...DW
AVIATION...JM/JP
MARINE...BC/DW
HYDROLOGY...BC/DW
