772 
FXUS61 KOKX 210831
AFDOKX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service New York NY
331 AM EST Fri Feb 21 2025

.SYNOPSIS...
High pressure builds Friday into the weekend. High pressure 
moves offshore Sunday night into Monday. Low pressure impacts 
the region Monday night through A low passes to the north Monday
night into Tuesday night. Weak high pressure briefly returns 
for Wednesday. Another low impacts the area Thursday.

&&

.NEAR TERM /THROUGH TONIGHT/...
Low pressure exits far to the northeast at the surface as a trough 
aloft begins to move offshore and farther east into the Atlantic 
tonight. At the same time, high pressure builds towards us from the 
interior. 

A few clouds may linger into the early morning, but quickly 
clear as dry air filters in leading to a mainly sunny afternoon
and night. 

An increased pressure gradient between high and low pressure will 
leave us under gusty NW flow until the winds gradually lessen 
tonight as the pressure gradient weakens due to high pressure moving 
in. Peak gusts this morning into this afternoon will be around 30 to 
35 mph. Should lose all gusts before daybreak Saturday.

Temperatures remain cold, with highs today in the upper-20s to 
around freezing. Maximum wind chills reach the teens to low-20s this 
afternoon. Low temperatures tonight drop into the teens to near
20. Given some breezy weather may remain, at least early in the
night, minimum wind chills will be in the single-digits.

&&

.SHORT TERM /SATURDAY THROUGH SUNDAY/...
High pressure settles in over the weekend. A few weak, moisture-
starved shortwaves aloft are hinted at in some global and regional 
guidance. This may keep partly cloudy skies around for the weekend, 
but will not lead to any precip. 

Temperatures will be on a warming trend this weekend as winds turn 
SW. Highs Saturday reach the mid/upper-30s. Highs Sunday reach the 
upper-30s to mid-40s. Saturday night low temperatures will 
range from the low/mid-20s in the interior and the LI Pine 
Barrens to around 32 in the NYC metro.

&&

.LONG TERM /SUNDAY NIGHT THROUGH THURSDAY/...
Key Points:

* Above normal temperatures expected Monday through Thursday.
  Highs Monday in the mid and upper 40s, and generally upper 40s 
  Tuesday, Wednesday, and Thursday. A few locations could reach the 
  lower 50s in metro NE NJ and NYC.

* Mainly dry conditions are expected through mid week. 

* A more organized low pressure system may impact the area late next 
  week.

The upper flow will be mainly zonal Sunday night into Monday with 
surface high pressure remaining in control. A more amplified trough, 
accompanied with a vort max, passes mainly to the north Monday 
night, quickly followed by another trough and vort max for Tuesday 
into Tuesday night. Still with some uncertainty with the timing, 
strength, and areal coverage of the systems have maintained 
generally slight chance probabilities Monday night through Tuesday 
night.

A more highly amplified trough approaches for Thursday into Thursday 
night. There remains some uncertainty with the interaction of a 
southerly low moving off the southeastern coast, and the track that 
this low and a northern stream low will take. Precipitation is 
expected to be mainly rain with warm air surging northward ahead of 
the trough, and then possibly ending as some light snow as the 
system exits Thursday night into Friday.

&&

.AVIATION /08Z FRIDAY THROUGH TUESDAY/...
High pressure builds into the area through tonight, and remains in 
control into Saturday.

VFR through the forecast period.

NW flow 15-20 kt, gusting to 25-30 kt is expected overnight and 
Friday, but may become more occasional toward daybreak. Isolated 
gusts of 30-35 kt possible during the day. Gusts diminish tonight. 

 ...NY Metro (KEWR/KLGA/KJFK/KTEB) TAF Uncertainty...

No unscheduled amendments expected.

.OUTLOOK FOR 06Z SATURDAY THROUGH TUESDAY...

Late Friday Night - Sunday: VFR. 

Monday and Tuesday: Mainly VFR. A chance of rain showers Monday 
night into Tuesday night with low chance of MVFR.
 

Detailed information, including hourly TAF wind component forecasts, 
can be found at: https:/www.weather.gov/zny/n90

&&

.MARINE...
SCA is in place until late Friday evening into Friday night. NW 
winds have peak gusts of 30 kts Friday morning into afternoon. Winds 
drop bellow SCA criteria west to east late Friday into Friday night. 
Waves will also reach 5-6 ft on the ocean waters. 

Saturday into Sunday conditions will fall below SCA criteria. 

Winds and seas remain below advisory levels Sunday night through 
Tuesday night as a weak pressure gradient settles over the
waters.

&&

.HYDROLOGY...
No hydrologic impacts are expected through the end of next week.

&&

.OKX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CT...None.
NY...None.
NJ...None.
MARINE...Small Craft Advisory until 1 AM EST Saturday for ANZ331-353-
     355.
     Small Craft Advisory until 4 AM EST Saturday for ANZ332-350.
     Small Craft Advisory until 10 PM EST this evening for ANZ335-
     338-340-345.

&&

$$

SYNOPSIS...BR/MET
NEAR TERM...BR
SHORT TERM...BR
LONG TERM...MET
AVIATION...MET
MARINE...BR/MET
HYDROLOGY...BR/MET
