137 
FXUS61 KOKX 030602
AFDOKX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service New York NY
102 AM EST Mon Feb 3 2025

.SYNOPSIS...
A warm front will lift through tonight, followed by a cold front
Monday night. High pressure returns Tuesday into Wednesday. A 
complex frontal system then approaches late Wednesday and impact
the area from Wednesday night into Thursday. High pressure will
return on Friday before another frontal system arrives next 
weekend.

&&

.NEAR TERM /UNTIL 6 AM THIS MORNING/...
Precip winding down across the area, with back edge of steady
light rain/snow moving through the forks of Long Island and 
light snow over far SE CT, and a few leftover flurries farther
back across S CT. There were some 2+ inch amts over S CT, with 
as much as 3.5 inches in North Haven. 

A Winter Weather Advisory remains in effect til 7 AM for
interior southern CT. 

Overall, fcst snowfall amounts were light for most of the area,
with around an inch or less from NE NJ, NY, and Long Island. 
Farther north, fcst snowfall amounts were 1-3 inches across the
Lower Hudson Valley, and closer to 3 inches for interior 
southern CT. 

The mid levels dry out and this may result in some lingering
flurries and/or patchy freezing drizzle across the interior 
into early morning. 

&&

.SHORT TERM /6 AM THIS MORNING THROUGH 6 PM TUESDAY/...
The warm front will be north of the area by Monday morning and
deep W-SW flow will continue ahead of the approaching cold 
front. Temperatures rise and moisture increases with highs in 
the mid to upper 40s. SW flow then picks up Monday evening and 
the cold frontal passage is expected sometime after midnight. At
this time, the front is expected to go through dry, but some 
sprinkles can not be ruled out. Because the winds stay up all 
night, went closer to the NBM and CONSALL instead of the MOS for
lows.

&&

.LONG TERM /TUESDAY NIGHT THROUGH SUNDAY/...
There has not been too much change with the forecast Tuesday
through next weekend. A fast zonal flow aloft with several 
embedded shortwaves/frontal systems look to impact the area, one
mid to late week and another next weekend.

High pressure builds in Tuesday and appears to settle overhead
by Wednesday morning. The high likely lingers nearby into 
Wednesday evening with the latest guidance slowing down the 
timing of an approaching frontal system. With the lingering 
surface ridging, have lowered precip probabilities during the 
day on Wednesday with a good chance it remains dry during the 
daytime. 

The model guidance then continues to differ with the evolution
of the complex frontal system Wednesday night into Thursday. 
However, the general idea in the modeling is similar overall 
with a parent low likely tracking to our northwest late 
Wednesday night into Thursday. This will help bring a warm front
across the area early Thursday before a trailing cold front 
passes late Thursday or Thursday night. Still thinking there 
will be a brief period of a wintry mix Wednesday night, first 
starting out as some snow and sleet then transitioning to 
freezing rain and rain early Thursday morning. The wintry mix 
will last longest across the interior with the NYC metro and 
Long Island becoming plain rain as the boundary layer warms late
Wednesday night into Thursday morning. Some freezing rain could
linger across the interior Thursday morning, depending on how 
quickly the boundary layer can warm up. This will be dependent 
on the strength of the SW flow. Some solutions are showing a 
weaker parent low, which would have a weaker lower level flow, 
and slower timing of scouring out the surface cold air inland. 
The overall pattern however supports warm air aloft helping to 
bring a transition to liquid at some point late Wednesday night 
or early Thursday morning. Little to no accumulation is 
currently expected near the coast with a light snow/sleet 
accumulation as well as light ice accretion inland are possible.
These details will become much clearer in the next day or so. 

Rain will continue on Thursday and should taper off late in the
day or night once the cold front passes. Dry conditions will 
return to end the week. Model guidance is in good agreement on 
another complex frontal system for next weekend. The synoptic 
pattern favors a similar set up to the mid week system, but 
PTYPE details are less certain at this time. Generally followed 
the latest model consensus blend for next weekend. 

Temperatures will be up and down through the period due to the
fast flow. Above normal temperatures Tuesday trend below 
normal by Wednesday. Temperatures should warm back above normal 
on Thursday before dropping below normal to end the week.

&&

.AVIATION /06Z MONDAY THROUGH FRIDAY/...
A warm front will lift through overnight. A cold front will
approach from the west today and pass through tonight. 

MVFR/IFR cigs continue with some locations north of NYC down to
LIFR. Precipitation is quickly exiting the region from west to
east, with the back edge of snow moving across the forks of Long
Island and far SE CT. Cond will be slow to improve over the next
few hours, becoming VFR toward 12Z. There is a chance that some
fog develops north of NYC. 

Winds will remain light and variable for most terminals through
the TAF period. For the NYC terminals, a SW flow around 10 kt
expected this afternoon. Winds start to shift back to the W-NW
late behind a cold frontal passage. 

 ...NY Metro (KEWR/KLGA/KJFK/KTEB) TAF Uncertainty...

Low cigs may last slightly longer than forecast.

.OUTLOOK FOR 06Z TUESDAY THROUGH FRIDAY... 

Late tonight: VFR. 

Tuesday: VFR. NW winds G20-30kt. 

Wednesday: VFR. 

Thursday: MVFR or lower possible in rain or a wintry mix. 

Friday: VFR with NW flow. 

Detailed information, including hourly TAF wind component
forecasts, can be found at: https:/www.weather.gov/zny/n90

&&

.MARINE...
Sub-Small Craft Advisory conditions are expected today. SW flow
then increases ahead of a cold front tonight, and wind gusts may
reach 25 kt on the eastern ocean waters as well as seas reaching
5 ft. Confidence is low and current forecast calls for only 
marginal SCA conditions, so held off on SCA issuance. 

Marginal SCA conditions are possible on the ocean on Tue, also
Wed night-Thu as a complex frontal system impacts the waters. 
Elevated ocean seas may then continue into Friday. 

&&

.HYDROLOGY...
There are no hydrologic concerns through next weekend.

&&

.OKX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CT...Winter Weather Advisory until 7 AM EST this morning for 
     CTZ005>008.
NY...None.
NJ...None.
MARINE...None.

&&

$$

SYNOPSIS...BG/JM/DS/JT
NEAR TERM...JM
SHORT TERM...JT
LONG TERM...DS
AVIATION...BC/BG
MARINE...DS/JT
HYDROLOGY...DS/JT
