716 
FXUS61 KOKX 250417
AFDOKX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service New York NY
1217 AM EDT Mon Aug 25 2025

.SYNOPSIS...
A cold front slowly approaches from the west into tonight, before 
passing through on Monday. High pressure then gradually builds in 
for the middle of the week. A frontal system may approach the 
region Friday into Saturday.

&&

.NEAR TERM /UNTIL 6 AM THIS MORNING/...
Not much with any changes for this intermediate update. Showers
/ t-storms off to the west run into a more stable environment as
per SPC mesoanalysis. Just a few minor tweaks in the hourly fx
database for the remainder of the overnight with respect to
mainly sky and dew points. 

Closed upper trough axis remains centered over the Great Lakes 
as a surface cold front has stalled to a degree off to the west
back over Western / Central PA. The front should make more of a
push towards the area for Monday morning. The winds have
lightened for the overnight and remain mainly onshore out of the
S and SE. This has brought in more in terms of low level
moisture. Where there have been less in the way of cloud cover
some radiational / ground based fog can form, otherwise mainly
some low stratus for much of the night. Less in terms of fog
where the mid level cloud deck persists longer. Thus with the
near saturated low levels looking for mostly cloudy skies on
average for the remainder of the overnight with slight chance
showers, especially further west as the line of showers off to
the west should weaken further as it approaches.

Meanwhile, a non tropical coastal area of low pressure skirts 
the Carolina coast and passes offshore to the east overnight. 
Thus, the region remains dry from this system as it passes 
east, so will maintain at least slight chance PoPs for most
places, with broken to overcast skies otherwise.

&&

.SHORT TERM /6 AM THIS MORNING THROUGH 6 AM TUESDAY/...
Trough slowly begins to shift into the Northeast on Monday, 
with a leading cold front moving through locally during the 
morning hours, and an offshore coastal low passing 150 mi 
southeast of Montauk.

Not anticipating widespread rainfall with the actual frontal 
passage, and CAMs advertise only isolated showers in the early 
morning as it moves through. Absent this, many, if not most, 
remain dry. Any lingering fog or low stratus erodes through mid 
morning, and remaining cloud cover attempts to break up as the 
day progresses and the front works further offshore.

Soundings show a well-mixed BL developing, up to 750 mb, as 
flow turns westerly behind the fropa. This should lead to gusts
20 to 25 mph much of the day. 925 mb are progged into the low 
20s(C), which yields a rather warm and humid day prior to the 
arrival of cooler air behind the front. Afternoon highs top the 
low to mid 80s, or even a couple of degrees above normal for 
late August. The drier, cooler air mass begins to advect in by 
late day, and dew pts fall from the mid to upper 60s in the 
afternoon, down into the 50s by the evening. Dry conditions 
prevail Monday night with clearing skies.

&&

.LONG TERM /TUESDAY THROUGH SUNDAY/...
Key Points:

* Dry conditions expected through Thursday, with slight shower 
  chances Friday.

* Temperatures will be near or slightly below normal for the period. 

Decent model agreement through the week with a series of upper 
troughs advecting through the northeast with little fanfare. High 
pressure at the surface slowly makes its way east from the Central 
Plains heading south of the area by late week. Thus, with the high 
off to the west, northwest flow at the surface will dominate, and so 
expecting dry and cooler conditions Tuesday through Thursday. By 
Friday, an upper trough approaches from the west along with a weak 
cold front. Precipitation chances do increase through the day on 
Friday, but with better forcing to our north via the
aforementioned upper trough, not anticipating much in the way 
of shower activity associated with the system at this point. 

The NBM was followed for this update.

&&

.AVIATION /04Z MONDAY THROUGH FRIDAY/...
A cold front slowly approaches overnight and moves across the 
terminals on Monday.

300-400 ft stratus starting to move over the south fork of Long
Island, so have bumped up the timing of LIFR cigs across the
eastern terminals. The question now is, how far west will the
low LIFR cigs reach. Still some uncertainty to whether or not it
reaches the NYC terminals. 

Otherwise, most terminal are VFR, but we should start to see
conditions fall to MVFR and then IFR or lower after 06z. A line
of showers continues to move across central/eastern PA and NY
however these showers will enter a more stable environment and
should fall apart by the time they reach the NYC terminals.
Still can not rule out some showers at some of the terminals
late tonight into early Monday morning. Conditions improve
Monday morning back to MVFR then VFR. 

Winds will be light and variable overnight, then become 
SW and W Monday morning at 5 to 10 kt.

 ...NY Metro (KEWR/KLGA/KJFK/KTEB) TAF Uncertainty...

MVFR or lower conditions could occur earlier than indicated in 
TAFs for tonight.

.OUTLOOK FOR 00Z TUESDAY THROUGH FRIDAY...

Monday afternoon: MVFR or lower possible, mainly east of 
NYC. Scattered showers also possible 

Tuesday - Friday: VFR.

Detailed information, including hourly TAF wind component forecasts, 
can be found at: https:/www.weather.gov/zny/n90

&&

.MARINE...
Extended Small Craft Advisory (SCA) on the coastal ocean waters
again until 2am as long period easterly swells continue, with 
seas hanging near 5 ft. or close enough to warrant small craft 
advisories per recent buoy observations. Seas gradually lower 
overnight, before building back toward 5 ft on waters east of 
Fire Island inlet late Monday afternoon with increasing 
southerly swells. Additional SCA may be needed here Monday 
evening through Tuesday morning.

Other than noted above, winds and waves are expected to remain 
below advisory criteria through the week.

&&

.HYDROLOGY...
There are no hydrologic concerns through the upcoming week.

&&

.TIDES/COASTAL FLOODING...
The high risk for rip currents for the Atlantic Ocean beaches
has been extended through Monday. Ocean beach reports continue
to highlight dangerous surf zone conditions this evening. A
combination of southerly flow, long period 7-8 second swells and
4-5 ft swell looks to continue until later in the day.

For Tuesday, there is a moderate risk for rip currents at the 
as a 3 to 4 ft swell continues.

&&

.OKX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CT...None.
NY...High Risk for Rip Currents through this evening for NYZ075-080-081-
     178-179.
NJ...None.
MARINE...Small Craft Advisory until 2 AM EDT early this morning for 
     ANZ350-353-355.

&&

$$

SYNOPSIS...DBR/DR
NEAR TERM...JE/DR
SHORT TERM...DR
LONG TERM...DBR
AVIATION...BC
MARINE...DBR/DR
HYDROLOGY...DBR/DR
TIDES/COASTAL FLOODING...
