017 
FXUS61 KOKX 260606
AFDOKX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service New York NY
206 AM EDT Sat Jul 26 2025

.SYNOPSIS...
High pressure remains over the area through early Sunday. A weak 
frontal system then approaches Sunday. High pressure returns to
the area for Monday into Tuesday. A cold front approaches from 
the west on Tuesday afternoon and moves offshore Tuesday 
evening. A second cold front follows late Wednesday into early 
Thursday with high pressure returning to end the week. 


&&

.NEAR TERM /THROUGH TODAY/...
The cold front is pushing offshore this morning and winds have 
shifted north/northwest as high pressure builds to the north. As a 
result, a drier airmass continues to work into the region bringing 
dewpoints some 5-10 degrees lower than on Friday. Dry conditions are 
expected for the day with a bit more comfortable temperatures and 
humidity levels, with highs in the mid 80s for most, and the upper 
80s for the urban corridor. Given the lower dewpoints, heat indices 
today will be near the actual temperature. 

High clouds will be on the increase this afternoon into this evening 
in advance of the next frontal system to impact the area Sunday. 

&&

.SHORT TERM /TONIGHT THROUGH MONDAY/...
Weak upper ridging becomes more of a zonal flow aloft as a shortwave 
approaches from the west. Aforementioned surface high pressure is 
slow to move east Sunday morning as a trough/warm front and 
associated low pressure system approach from the west. Precip 
chances thus increase on Sunday morning from west to east as the 
front slides near the area. Instability per BUFKIT soundings looks 
weak in the AM, so any thunder looks isolated initially. Mid and low 
level dry air also looks to remain entrenched for at least part of 
Sunday AM, so precip may have some difficulty initially. Model 
soundings do show an appreciable increase in PWAT, with over 2" by 
Sunday afternoon along with a modest increase in instability (MUCAPE 
500-1000J) and shear (0-6km shear values ~30kts) with the 
approaching shortwave. SPC maintains a marginal risk of severe 
thunderstorms for the area on Sunday. 

With cloud cover around, highs will be mainly in the low 80s, with a 
more humid feel as dewpoints rebound into the low 70s by Sunday 
evening under the southerly flow.

An increase in heat and humidity on Monday as weak ridging builds 
back in behind the departing shortwave. Dry weather is expected. 
However, h850 temperatures approach 20-21C Monday afternoon with 
dewpoint in the mid 70s (per NBM). Thus, heat indices of 100-105 for 
northeast NJ and 95-100 elsewhere look possible once again.

&&

.LONG TERM /MONDAY NIGHT THROUGH FRIDAY/...
The NBM was followed with no changes.

Key Points: 

* High heat and humidity will continue on Tuesday, potentially 
  lingering into Wednesday. The peak of the heat currently looks to 
  occur on Tuesday with max heat index values 100 to around 105F. 
  Wednesdays heat index values remain below 100.

* A few showers and thunderstorms are possible Tuesday afternoon and 
  evening with a weak cold front. The threat for showers and 
  thunderstorms continues Wednesday, potentially lingering into 
  Thursday as a stronger cold front moves into the area. 

* Temperatures trend down to end the week with potential of below 
  normal temperatures. Humidity levels also should be much lower 
  than the first half of the week. 

&&

.AVIATION /06Z SATURDAY THROUGH WEDNESDAY/...
High pressure briefly builds into the region today. A warm front 
approaches the area from the west tonight. 

Winds will start off from the north around 10 kt or less. Winds will 
veer into Saturday becoming SE by afternoon 7-10 kt. Tonight, winds 
become light at most terminals from the south. 

 ...NY Metro (KEWR/KLGA/KJFK/KTEB) TAF Uncertainty...

Timing of winds veering today may vary by 1-2 hours. 

.OUTLOOK FOR 06Z SUNDAY THROUGH WEDNESDAY... 

Saturday night - Sunday: Mainly VFR. MVFR or lower possible in 
any showers or thunderstorms.

Monday: VFR.

Tuesday - Wednesday: Mainly VFR with possible MVFR or lower in 
showers and thunderstorms each afternoon.

Detailed information, including hourly TAF wind component forecasts, 
can be found at: https:/www.weather.gov/zny/n90
.OUTLOOK FOR 00Z SUNDAY THROUGH WEDNESDAY... 

Saturday night - Sunday: Mainly VFR. MVFR or lower possible in 
any showers or thunderstorms.

Monday: VFR.

Tuesday - Wednesday: Mainly VFR with possible MVFR or lower in 
showers and thunderstorms each afternoon.

Detailed information, including hourly TAF wind component forecasts, 
can be found at: https:/www.weather.gov/zny/n90

&&

.MARINE...
A brief period of 20 kt gusts are possible in wake of a frontal 
passage Saturday night into Sunday morning. Otherwise, sub SCA 
conditions are likely through Monday. A relatively weak pressure gradient Tuesday 
through the end of the week will lead to conditions staying 
below SCA levels.

&&

.HYDROLOGY...
Showers and thunderstorms associated with a frontal system could 
produce locally heavy downpours on Sunday that result in nuisance 
flooding. WPC maintains a marginal risk of excessive rainfall, but 
the overall widespread flood threat appears low at this time.

There are currently no hydrologic concerns next week.

&&

.TIDES/COASTAL FLOODING...
A moderate rip current risk continues for Saturday with a 
mixture of lingering 1 to 2 ft S wind swell and a developing 3 
ft wind wave. 

A moderate rip current risk continues for Sunday with 1 to 2 ft
E wind wave and residual 1ft S/SE wind swell.

&&

.OKX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CT...None.
NY...None.
NJ...None.
MARINE...None.

&&

$$

SYNOPSIS...BC/DBR
NEAR TERM...DBR
SHORT TERM...DBR
LONG TERM...
AVIATION...BC 
MARINE...BC/DBR 
HYDROLOGY...BC/DBR 
TIDES/COASTAL FLOODING... 
CLIMATE...
