122 
FXUS61 KOKX 270622
AFDOKX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service New York NY
222 AM EDT Tue May 27 2025

.SYNOPSIS...
High pressure builds across the area today. For Wednesday, high
pressure will be moving well out into the Atlantic. A series of
low pressure systems move through the region for the remainder 
of the week and into the start of the weekend. Weak high 
pressure returns Sunday into early next week.

&&

.NEAR TERM /UNTIL 6 AM THIS MORNING/...
The forecast is mainly on track. Dry conditions expected as
surface high pressure builds into the area.

Light and variable flow with a mostly clear sky should allow for
some efficient surface cooling overnight. Some outlying 
locations may drop into the upper 40s. Otherwise, lows in the 
lower/mid 50s are expected.

&&

.SHORT TERM /6 AM THIS MORNING THROUGH 6 PM WEDNESDAY/...
High pressure overhead this morning will continue to gradually 
slide offshore to the southeast into this afternoon. This will 
result in generally clear skies during the morning with light 
synoptic flow. Sea breezes should become more dominant toward 
afternoon, aided by the offshore high pressure. This may limit 
the cooling of coastal areas, mainly coastal southern 
Connecticut and southern Long Island. Otherwise, highs expected 
to be in the middle to upper 70s for much of the area. Coastal 
areas may only reach the middle to upper 60s.

By afternoon, high clouds will begin to filter in from the
southwest ahead of the next disturbance. This increasing cloud
cover and a light southerly flow off of the ocean advecting 
more moisture into the area will limit the extent of cooling 
Tuesday night. Lows will be in the middle to upper 50s for most,
though some outlying areas may drop into the lower 50s. 
Despite increasing cloud cover, overnight Tuesday will be dry.

&&

.LONG TERM /WEDNESDAY NIGHT THROUGH MONDAY/...
Upper levels exhibit a ridge moving east of the region Wednesday 
into Wednesday night. A series of troughs then move through Thursday 
into the next weekend. On the large scale, a longwave trough takes 
shape over the Northeast for the latter half of the week. The trough 
shifts east of the region early next week, with ridging moving in.

Low pressure areas approach from the Mid-Atlantic and Great Lakes 
Wednesday through Wednesday night. The mid-Atlantic low moves across 
the local area Thursday. Another low pressure area then approaches 
Friday from near the Appalachians. This low moves across Friday 
night into Saturday.

Rain is in the forecast Wednesday through Thursday night with 
highest probabilities Wednesday night and Thursday. More chances of 
rain showers are forecast Friday afternoon through Saturday. 

GFS and ECMWF models indicate increases in low level instability but 
have differences in timing when the relatively more unstable 
forecast conditions are in place across the local area. The model 
differences are also apparent with position and timing of low 
pressure and upper level troughs. There is a slight chance of 
thunderstorms Thursday night as well as Friday and Saturday.

High pressure then returns to close out the weekend and will become 
established offshore for early next week. Mainly dry conditions are 
expected Sunday through early next week.

Forecast daytime temperatures during the long term are cooler than 
normal Wednesday and Thursday with high temperatures more in the 60s 
and then are close to normal Friday and into the weekend as high 
temperatures reach more into the 70s. Low temperatures are mostly in 
the 50s. Temperatures appear to start warming up next Monday with 
forecast highs reaching more in the upper 70s to near 80. 

Blended in MAV/MET/NBM/ for high temperature forecast 
Wednesday, used a blend of CONSRaw and NBM for lows Wednesday 
night and highs on Thursday. Used NBM for temperatures 
thereafter.

&&

.AVIATION /06Z TUESDAY THROUGH SATURDAY/...
High pressure remains over the area through Tuesday. 

VFR. Light winds overnight. Light ENE sound breeze should 
develop at KLGA this morning and last into early afternoon. SE-S
breezes develop from late morning into the afternoon. 

 ...NY Metro (KEWR/KLGA/KJFK/KTEB) TAF Uncertainty...

Timing of S sea breeze this afternoon at KLGA a little uncertain
and could occur a little earlier than fcst. 

.OUTLOOK FOR 06Z WEDNESDAY THROUGH SATURDAY...

Late tonight: VFR.

Wednesday: Chance of showers with MVFR cond in the afternoon at
the NYC metro and lower Hudson Valley terminals. SE winds 
G15-20kt at the NYC metro/coastal terminals. 

Wednesday night and Thursday: Showers likely. MVFR cond expected,
IFR possible late at night into the morning. E-SE winds 
G15-20kt at the NYC metro/coastal terminals.

Friday: Mainly VFR. Slight chance of showers. MVFR or lower cigs
possible toward evening at the coastal terminals. 

Friday night ad Saturday: Chance of showers and possibly a 
tstm. MVFR cond likely, IFR possible. SW winds G15-20kt in 
the afternoon. 

Detailed information, including hourly TAF wind component forecasts, 
can be found at: https:/www.weather.gov/zny/n90

&&

.MARINE...
Generally tranquil conditions expected on all waters through at 
least Wednesday afternoon with a weak pressure gradient and high 
pressure nearby.

Forecast sea below SCA on non-ocean waters for the marine long 
term Wednesday through Saturday night. Forecast seas on the 
ocean below SCA Wednesday and much of Wednesday night. SCA seas 
start to develop late Wednesday night on parts of the ocean. SCA
seas are expected on the ocean Thursday and Thursday night. The
SCA seas could linger into Friday on eastern parts of the ocean
with otherwise below SCA conditions. Below SCA conditions 
persist Friday night and then return to SCA levels is forecast 
Saturday and Saturday night.

Forecast wind gusts could get to SCA levels for portions of the 
ocean Wednesday afternoon through Thursday. It will be marginal.
Non-ocean zones have gusts maxing out near 20 kt. Below SCA 
wind gusts are then forecast Thursday night through Saturday 
night.

&&

.HYDROLOGY...
No hydrologic impacts expected through the weekend.

&&

.TIDES/COASTAL FLOODING...
Astronomical high tides are running high with new moon, and with
a developing easterly flow and fetch minor coastal flooding is
possible around the times of high tide into late week. This 
would be for the Long Island south shore bays and perhaps
portions of the Lower NY Harbor and western Sound shorelines. 

Regarding rip current risk, the forecast has a low rip current
risk for Tuesday and Wednesday along the ocean beaches. Winds
will remain light, generally 10 kt or less, with seas 1-2 ft. 

&&

.OKX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CT...None.
NY...None.
NJ...None.
MARINE...None.

&&

$$

SYNOPSIS...JM/MW
NEAR TERM...JC/JM/MW
SHORT TERM...MW
LONG TERM...JM
AVIATION...BG
MARINE...JM/MW
HYDROLOGY...JM/MW
TIDES/COASTAL FLOODING...
