732 
FXUS61 KOKX 200606
AFDOKX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service New York NY
206 AM EDT Thu Mar 20 2025

.SYNOPSIS...
High pressure shifts offshore overnight ahead of a low pressure
system that will slowly approach from the west. Low pressure 
and the attendant cold front move through the area Thursday 
night with high pressure briefly following for Friday into 
Saturday before a weak area of low pressure passes through 
Saturday night. High pressure then returns Sunday, with another 
frontal system expected to move through early next week.

&&

.NEAR TERM /UNTIL 6 AM THIS MORNING/...
For this update have increased and sped up low cloud coverage
with advection of maritime layer off the ocean. Have lowered
vsbys for the remainder of the overnight period, except for
interior locations as there remains doubt as to how far inland
(NW) low stratus and fog can get. Have upped fog wording to
areas and may eventually need an SPS, or perhaps even a dense
fog advisory across SE locations if lower vsbys materialize.
Will take a wait and see approach these next few hours. Previous
discussion follows.

The combination of subsidence from high pressure aloft, diurnal
cooling, and ESE winds will allow both the development and the 
WNW progression of stratus and fog. Deepening low level moisture
and at least minimal vertical ascent may additionally support 
patchy drizzle, primarily for areas closer to the coast.

Minimum temperatures will be about 10 degrees above climatological 
normals, ranging from the mid to upper 30s inland, to mid 40s across 
NYC.

&&

.SHORT TERM /6 AM THIS MORNING THROUGH 6 PM FRIDAY/...
Increased cloud cover, fog, and drizzle may persist into the morning 
beneath the subsidence inversion as low level flow generally remains 
onshore. High temperatures will be cooler than the previous few 
days, generally in the upper 40s to 50s closer to the coast and 
closer to 60 across New Jersey and the Lower Hudson Valley.

As the day progresses, phasing upper systems will strengthen 
meridional flow aloft, allowing for moisture advection ahead of
an approaching cold front. Although precipitable water values 
will approach the 90th percentile for time of year, the 
progressive nature of the front will generally keep rainfall 
accumulations under an inch Thursday night. Cold advection 
following the departing front may lead to a brief period of snow
across interior portions of the Lower Hudson Valley, but 
probabilities of occurrence remain at or below about 10 percent.
Would not expect much if any accumulation if snow does occur. 

Following the front, flow strengthens between the departing system 
and building high pressure allowing for a blustery day. Although 
highs will be close to climatological normals in the upper 40s to 
lower 50s across the area, breezy winds will make temperatures feel 
much cooler.

&&

.LONG TERM /FRIDAY NIGHT THROUGH WEDNESDAY/...
High pressure builds in Friday night and weakens during Saturday as 
an upper shortwave and surface trough shift through during the 
afternoon to evening hours. Slight (20%) chance of a shower for the 
NW half of the forecast area during Saturday afternoon, otherwise 
dry Friday night through Saturday night. Above normal high 
temperatures for Saturday, mostly 55-60. A cooler air mass follows 
for Sunday as high pressure builds in from the NW. Highs near normal 
at around 50.

500mb trough and attendant surface low then move through the western 
Great Lakes Region during Sunday night. Lift ahead of an approaching 
warm front to the south interacts with increasing moisture for a 
chance of rain after midnight. For areas north of the city, thermal 
profiles would support snow or a wintry mix. Rain is then likely 
(70% chance) on Monday and Monday night with the warm front lifting 
through the region during the day, followed by a cold front at 
night. Impacts so far appear to be very limited as the 
convective/heavy rain/wind threats are minimal.

Weak high pressure is left in the wake of the storm system for 
Tuesday, and it remains weak on Wednesday with another 500mb trough 
moving in. Will go with a dry forecast for Tuesday, but there's a 
slight chance for showers on Wednesday with cyclonic flow aloft and 
enough mid-level moisture. The sub-cloud layer may however be too 
dry to support anything reaching the ground.

&&

.AVIATION /06Z THURSDAY THROUGH MONDAY/...
High pressure gradually moves off the New England coast today,
with a cold front approaching this evening and crossing the area
tonight.

LIFR, patchy VLIFR, in low stratus, drizzle and fog will 
continue to overspread the area from e to w early this morning.
Gradual improvement to IFR likely during the mid to late morning,
with MVFR conds possible for NYC/NJ metro terminals in the 
afternoon. IFR likely holds for south facing coastal terminals, 
possibly even kJFK/kHPN, through the day, with a return to LIFR
likely for the eve push. Rain likely between 00z and 09z for 
NYC/NJ metro terminals with IFR conds, 1-2 hrs later for eastern
terminals. Conds improving to VFR late tonight in its wake. 

SE winds less than 10 kt through the AM push, increasing in the
aft/eve with gusts around 20 kt possible. Winds and gusts
briefly weaken with frontal passage, shifting WNW 15g25kt in its
wake after 06z.

 ...NY Metro (KEWR/KLGA/KJFK/KTEB) TAF Uncertainty...
IFR/LIFR likely for AM push. Timing of improvement may be off 
by 1-3 hours.

.OUTLOOK FOR 06Z FRIDAY THROUGH MONDAY...

Late Tonight: Rain showers tapering off with conds improving to
MVFR/VFR. NW winds 15G20-25kt.

Friday: VFR. NW winds G30-40kt through the afternoon. NW gusts 
20-25 kt in the evening. 

Saturday: VFR. Chance of MVFR and showers, particularly NW of 
NYC in aft/eve. SW winds G25-30kt in the aft, becoming W/NW in 
the eve.

Sunday: VFR. NW winds G20kt.

Monday: IFR with rain likely. 

Detailed information, including hourly TAF wind component
forecasts, can be found at: https:/www.weather.gov/zny/n90

&&

.MARINE...
Have hoisted marine dense fog adv for all zones through 15z for
reduced vsbys. Sub small craft conditions will persist 
overnight before ocean seas begin to gradually increase 
beginning Thursday morning. Small craft seas should prevail by 
afternoon with a SE wind around 15 kts late in the day and 
evening. Low pressure and its associated frontal system pass 
through Thursday night with an abrupt shift in winds that will 
gust to gales from the NW into Friday. Winds and seas then 
subside through Friday night with advisory conditions, but 
perhaps a gust or two to gale force across the eastern ocean 
waters early on. Sub- advisory conditions otherwise prevail by 
Saturday morning, however increasing winds from the SW probably 
push ocean seas back up over 5 ft Saturday afternoon into 
Saturday night. A few gusts to 25 kt will also be possible for 
some of the non-ocean waters Saturday night. Winds then subside 
once again on Sunday with sub-advisory conditions Sunday 
afternoon through Monday morning. Winds increase Monday 
afternoon with SCA conds likely at least on the ocean.

&&

.HYDROLOGY...
At this time no hydrologic impacts are expected throughout the 
forecast period.

&&

.OKX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CT...None.
NY...None.
NJ...None.
MARINE...Dense Fog Advisory until 11 AM EDT this morning for ANZ331-332-
     335-338-340-345-350-353-355.
     Gale Watch from Friday morning through Friday afternoon for 
     ANZ331-332-335-338-340-345-350-353-355.
     Small Craft Advisory from 8 AM this morning to 6 AM EDT Friday 
     for ANZ350-353-355.

&&

$$

SYNOPSIS...JC/MD
NEAR TERM...MD/JE
SHORT TERM...MD
LONG TERM...JC
AVIATION...NV
MARINE...MD/JE
HYDROLOGY...JC/MD
