389 
FXUS61 KOKX 032104 CCA
AFDOKX

Area Forecast Discussion...CORRECTED
National Weather Service New York NY
Issued by National Weather Service Mount Holly NJ
504 PM EDT Tue Jun 3 2025

.SYNOPSIS...
Offshore high pressure remains in place through early Thursday.
Thereafter, multiple areas of low pressure approach and move
near the area going through the weekend and into early next week.

&&

.NEAR TERM /THROUGH TONIGHT/...
Dry conditions prevail. Winds expected to diminish with high
pressure offshore remaining dominant. The mid level ridge axis
aloft moves across the local area.

Mostly clear sky conditions are anticipated. While conditions
favor more ideal radiational cooling, despite this, low
temperatures trend a few degrees warmer compared to the previous
night, mid 50s to lower 60s.

Smoke from distant Canadian Wildfires aloft in the atmosphere is
forecast to move into the area according to the HRRR model 
tonight but not result in any significant reductions in visibility
as haze will remain aloft.

&&

.SHORT TERM /WEDNESDAY THROUGH WEDNESDAY NIGHT/...
Offshore high pressure will slowly weaken Wednesday into Wednesday
night. The ridge aloft moves farther east of the region and
eventually weakens.

Dry conditions continue with a warming trend to temperatures. In
addition, dewpoints rise to mid 50s to near 60, with more water
vapor content to the air. State environmental agencies have issued
air quality alerts for low level ozone Wednesday late morning into
Wednesday evening. Smoke aloft is possible again according to the
HRRR model with some lower level haze possible as well. 

For Wednesday, models pretty good agreement on the 850mb
temperatures increasing several degrees compared to the previous
day. With a tightening of the pressure gradient between high
pressure offshore and low pressure to the west, SW winds
increase and become gusty in the afternoon. This will help warm
up temperatures more away from the coast to mid to upper 80s
while coastline remains in the 70s with more maritime influence. 

Wednesday night, third night of onshore flow. Some increase in
clouds expected. Possible patchy fog and/or low stratus late 
night into early Thursday morning out east across Long Island and 
Southern CT. Forecast lows well into the 60s with SW flow 
remaining.

&&

.LONG TERM /THURSDAY THROUGH TUESDAY/...
The synoptic ridge pattern gradually shifts to more of a trough
structure with rain eventually returning to the forecast late
week, for parts of the weekend as well as early next week. Within
the longer wavelength trough setting up, there will be embedded
shortwaves that periodically pass near the area.

At the surface, a cold front approaches from the west Thursday 
through early Friday. The front then returns back north thereafter
as a warm front and slows down heading into the weekend. This 
will become part of another low pressure system approaching from 
the southwest. This low's associated cold front moves near the 
area for the first half of the weekend with additional low 
pressure development along it.

The low and cold front move east of the area Sunday into Sunday
but another low and associated frontal system move near the area
for early next week.

Thursday, again, slight increase in 850mb temperatures so
warming trend at the surface. However one mitigating factor will
be increasing clouds ahead of low pressure both from the west
and from the south. Still expect highs to get well into 80s
except along coast where highs will be near 80 with more maritime
influence.

Dry conditions continue Thursday. Mainly dry conditions for 
Thursday night.

For Long Island and Southeast CT, possible patchy fog and low 
level stratus again for late Thursday night into Friday morning.

Showers and thunderstorms more probable Friday through Friday night. 
Closer to the coast, thunderstorms mostly slight chance with more 
maritime influence. One weak low pressure system approaches from 
the west with low pressure moving well out to sea to the east of 
the mid-Atlantic.

Highest chances of showers Saturday through Saturday night with a
slow moving cold front with the low pressure system within the
region. Thunderstorms possible as well, but relatively higher 
chance away from the coast.

Chances for showers decrease Sunday into Sunday night but increase 
thereafter for early next week with the next frontal system.

Think fog will be more prevalent late Friday night into 
Saturday morning, have patchy fog for entire area.

For rest of temperatures, another quite warm day forecast Friday
with highs well into the 80s but relatively cooler trend 
thereafter for weekend into early next week with daytime highs 
more in the 70s. Flow becomes more northerly Sunday and then
more easterly early next week.

&&

.AVIATION /19Z TUESDAY THROUGH SUNDAY/...
High pressure will be offshore through the rest of the TAF
period. 

VFR conditions are expected through the TAF period.

All southerly winds are in place except for KHPN which should
become more southerly shortly. KSWF is more SW initially but
could vary between W and SW.

Wind speeds mostly near 5-10 kt although KJFK is forecast to be
closer to 15 kt for some time late this afternoon into early 
this evening.

Smoke aloft from Canadian wildfires is likely for tonight. 
However, low level visibility will not be impacted.

 ...NY Metro (KEWR/KLGA/KJFK/KTEB) TAF Uncertainty... 

A few wind gusts to 20 kt possible before 00Z.

.OUTLOOK FOR 18Z WEDNESDAY THROUGH SUNDAY... 

Wednesday through Thursday: VFR. Possible brief MVFR/IFR east of
NYC terminals early Thursday morning in fog/stratus. SW wind 
gusts 15-20 kt Wednesday and Thursday during afternoon to early
evening.

Friday: Possible MVFR/IFR with chance of showers/tstms. Possible
brief MVFR/IFR east of NYC terminals early Friday morning in 
fog/stratus. SW wind gusts 15-20 kt possible in the afternoon to
early evening.

Saturday: Possible MVFR/IFR with showers likely. Chance of
tstms. Patchy fog early Saturday.

Sunday: Slight chance of a shower. MVFR possible. Otherwise 
mainly VFR.

Detailed information, including hourly TAF wind component forecast, 
can be found at: https:/www.weather.gov/zny/n90

&&

.MARINE...
Conditions expected to remain mainly below SCA thresholds on all 
waters through Friday night. Gusts to 20 kt develop each day on 
most waters mid to late week. Some occasional 25 kt gusts will be
possible. Forecast ocean seas also briefly reach 5 ft for parts 
of the ocean Thursday night. Not confident on SCA here, conditions
are marginal for SCA.

Winds remain below SCA thresholds thereafter through the upcoming
weekend. However, with the continued SW fetch, seas will build on
the ocean with the forecast showing some 5 ft ocean seas for this
weekend. So, SCA will be possible.

&&

.HYDROLOGY...
No hydrologic concerns through Thursday. Thereafter, with an
increasingly humid and warm airmass in place, layer PW gradually
increases. PW values approach 1.5 inches Thursday night and
eventually reach near 1.75 inches Saturday. This will allow for
any thunderstorms to easily produce heavy downpours. This would
lead to potential minor flooding in low lying, urban, and poor 
drainage areas with excessive runoff especially with any training
of thunderstorm cells. There is a marginal flood risk for 
Saturday through Saturday night.

&&

.TIDES/COASTAL FLOODING...
There is a low risk for the development of rip current at the
ocean beaches Tuesday and Wednesday.

&&

.OKX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CT...None.
NY...None.
NJ...None.
MARINE...None.

&&

$$

SYNOPSIS...JM
NEAR TERM...JM
SHORT TERM...JM
LONG TERM...JM
AVIATION...JM
MARINE...JM
HYDROLOGY...JM
TIDES/COASTAL FLOODING...
