785 
FXUS61 KOKX 010653
AFDOKX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service New York NY
253 AM EDT Fri Aug 1 2025

.SYNOPSIS...
Low pressure slides off the Mid Atlantic coast today followed by 
high pressure building in for late today into the start of the 
weekend. The high settles over the region into the first half of 
next week, and possibly into the later half of the week as well.

&&

.NEAR TERM /THROUGH TONIGHT/...
As a frontal boundary gets further south and southeast today, low 
pressure along the coast south of the area will begin to push 
offshore. Showers will linger this morning, mainly across eastern 
and southeastern portions of the area. Otherwise, clouds will linger 
for a good portion of the day, especially further east. Some partial 
clearing takes place this afternoon across western and northern 
portions of the area. A big difference today as far as temperatures 
and the humidity. Temperatures today will be a good 10 to 15 degrees 
cooler than yesterday, especially further south across the area 
where it warmest yesterday. A northeast wind will remain gusty as a 
tight pressure gradient persists through the first half of the day 
due to high pressure to the northwest and low pressure and a frontal 
boundary to the south. The gradient begins to relax later in the 
afternoon, thus the wind gusts will start to become more occasional 
and decrease some. Temperatures will actually average a good 7 to 10 
degrees below average with mainly middle 70s for daytime highs due 
to clouds for a good portion of the day and a northeast flow.

For tonight as high pressure over the Great Lakes builds down, skies 
begin to clear. With the winds diminishing look for temperatures to 
fall into the middle and upper 50s late at night across the interior 
and more rural locales. Otherwise temperatures settle into the lower 
and middle 60s closer to the coast as dewpoint readings get down 
mostly into the drier 50s towards daybreak.

&&

.SHORT TERM /SATURDAY THROUGH SUNDAY NIGHT/...
A wonderful weather weekend is on tap with a large dome of high 
pressure being in control with a light northerly flow to begin the 
weekend for Saturday. Expect plenty of sunshine both days this 
weekend with cooler 850 mb temperatures look for most places to get 
into the upper 70s to around 80 on Saturday. For Sunday as the air 
mass modifies some it gets a few degrees warmer as temperatures get 
back to normal with mainly lower and middle 80s for daytime highs 
with light winds. Dew point readings will remain fairly comfortable 
with a nice break from the oppressive humidity levels from earlier 
in the week. Temperatures at night will be primarily be in the 60s, 
with some 50s in the non urban locations.

&&

.LONG TERM /MONDAY THROUGH THURSDAY/...
Surface high pressure and zonal flow aloft will result in dry 
weather and seasonable temperatures through at least Tuesday.
Thereafter, some guidance continue to bring a trough near the region 
which could lead to unsettled weather in the later part of the week. 
However, the majority of available guidance seems to be backing off 
on this scenario, instead trending drier with high pressure holding 
as the trough looks weaker and remains further north. 

Followed the NBM during this period.

&&

.AVIATION /07Z FRIDAY THROUGH TUESDAY/...
A cold front will be situated south of the area through this 
morning. High pressure begins to build in this afternoon into 
tonight.

MVFR to high-end IFR conditions may continue into the early morning 
with ongoing showers. Visibility should mainly be 5SM and up, but a 
few moments of lower vsbys remains possible in any heavier showers 
that develop, but is expected to be temporary, when and if it 
occurs. Conditions then improve into mid/late this morning. VFR by 
this afternoon. Remaining VFR into the night. 

NNE winds 10-15 kts with gusts to around 20-25 kts through the 
morning. Gusts may occasional. Winds diminish into the afternoon, 
becoming light from the north and possibly variable by late in the 
evening or early tonight. 


  NY Metro (KEWR/KLGA/KJFK/KTEB) TAF Uncertainty...

Conditions are expected to shift between high-end IFR and low-end 
MVFR through 13Z.

Gusts in TAFs might end up being more occasional. 

.OUTLOOK FOR 06Z SATURDAY THROUGH TUESDAY... 

Saturday-Tuesday: VFR.

Detailed information, including hourly TAF wind component forecasts, 
can be found at: https:/www.weather.gov/zny/n90

&&

.MARINE...
Small craft conditions remain in place into the early afternoon for 
the non-ocean waters. Small craft seas should remain in place not 
only through today and this evening, but also into Saturday morning 
for the ocean waters. Towards Saturday afternoon sub advisory 
conditions are expected to prevail on the ocean. Thereafter, sub 
advisory conditions are expected on all waters into the middle of 
next week as high pressure remains in control.

&&

.HYDROLOGY...
There are no additional hydrologic concerns through the first 
half of next week.

&&

.TIDES/COASTAL FLOODING...
There will be a high rip current risk through this evening for the 
ocean beaches predominantly from a strong E to W longshore 
current from 5-7ft ENE wind waves. The risk then decreases to 
moderate on Saturday.

&&

.OKX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CT...None.
NY...High Risk for Rip Currents from 6 AM EDT this morning through this 
     evening for NYZ081.
NJ...None.
MARINE...Small Craft Advisory until 2 PM EDT this afternoon for ANZ331-
     332-335-338-340.
     Small Craft Advisory until 6 PM EDT this evening for ANZ345.
     Small Craft Advisory until 11 AM EDT Saturday for ANZ350-353-
     355.

&&

$$

SYNOPSIS...JE/BR
NEAR TERM...JE
SHORT TERM...JE
LONG TERM...BR
AVIATION...BR
MARINE...JE/BR
HYDROLOGY...JE/BR
TIDES/COASTAL FLOODING...
