610 
FXUS61 KOKX 120534
AFDOKX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service New York NY
1234 AM EST Sun Jan 12 2025

.SYNOPSIS...
High pressure slowly builds from the west early this morning and
then over the waters into tonight. A pair of cold fronts will 
move across from Monday night into Wednesday. High pressure will
build in from Thursday into Friday. A frontal system may impact
the area next weekend.

&&

.NEAR TERM /UNTIL 6 AM THIS MORNING/...
Mostly clear skies expected through early morning with dry
conditions. The pressure gradient will be weakening with winds 
and gusts gradually subsiding. Lows will be in the 20s.

&&

.SHORT TERM /6 AM THIS MORNING THROUGH 6 PM MONDAY/...
High pressure will be in control both at the surface and aloft 
daytime into tonight as an upper ridge settles over the region.
This will allow for dry conditions, weak winds and temperatures
to at or just above normal. Highs will be in the upper 
30s/lower 40s. 

As the upper ridge slides east Sunday night, a quasi-zonal flow
aloft may bring some mid level clouds into the area, especially
inland closer to some weak forcing aloft. Temps will fall to
the lower 30s in NYC, the 20s most elsewhere, with some teens 
possible in the Long Island Pine Barrens.

&&

.LONG TERM /MONDAY NIGHT THROUGH SATURDAY/...
Mainly dry conditions in the long term with the passage of a 
couple of moisture starved cold fronts, one late Monday into 
Monday night and another weak front or surface trough on 
Wednesday. Lift is too weak associated with these features to 
allow for any widespread precipitation. However a stray 
snow/rain shower or flurry cannot be ruled out with these 
passages, with better chances Monday than Wednesday, but again, 
have gone with a dry forecast. 

After Monday and the passage of the cold front, Canadian high 
pressure builds in and brings another round of cold air from Tuesday 
through Thursday. 850 temperatures across deterministic models show 
-13 to -16 C during this time frame. NBM high temperatures range 
from the upper 20s to around freezing during this time frame. Stuck 
close to the NBM for temperatures, but given the aforementioned 850 
temperatures, these highs may be a couple of degrees too warm. 
Additionally, the spread between the 25th and 75th percentile in the 
NBM is about 3 to 4 degrees F. Therefore, would not be surprised if 
subsequent forecasts show lower temperatures during this period. 
Low temperatures are expected to be in the teens to 20s. 

Zonal flow aloft from Monday into Tuesday, then a series of weak 
shortwave troughs move through during the week. The next chance for 
any precipitation comes next weekend as a frontal system may impact 
the region.

&&

.AVIATION /06Z SUNDAY THROUGH THURSDAY/...
High pressure builds in from the west through Sunday and remains 
Sunday night.

VFR.

Winds remain from the NW into Sunday afternoon, when winds begin to 
back toward the W and WNW with speeds diminishing. Any remaining 
gusts from 06Z to 08Z may be more occasional, with gusts ending 08Z 
to 09Z. Winds remain light westerly to light and variable Sunday 
night.


 ...NY Metro (KEWR/KLGA/KJFK/KTEB) TAF Uncertainty...

No unscheduled amendments expected.


OUTLOOK FOR 06Z MONDAY THROUGH THURSDAY...

Late Sunday night-Monday: VFR.

Monday night: VFR. W wind gusts 15-20 kt develop.

Tuesday-Wednesday: VFR. NW wind gusts 20-30 kt. Wind gusts diminish 
Wednesday night.

Thursday: VFR.

Detailed information, including hourly TAF wind component forecasts, 
can be found at: https:/www.weather.gov/zny/n90

&&

.MARINE...
Have cancelled the Small Craft on the Harbor as winds have
fallen below 25 kt. The rest of the Small Craft remains as
issued earlier. 

Winds and seas diminish this morning via building high 
pressure, with the advisories ending across all waters by midday
Sunday.

SCA conditions likely to develop Monday night for the ocean 
waters and Tuesday for the non-ocean waters, continuing through 
Wednesday and possibly Wednesday night. Wind gusts of 25 to 30 
kt are expected on strong cold advection from Tuesday into 
Wednesday on all waters. Waves on the ocean waters peak at 4 to 
7 ft Tuesday night, with 5 ft waves expected over the central 
sound. Waves diminish Wednesday, with wave heights on ocean 
waters falling below 5 ft Wednesday night.

&&

.HYDROLOGY...
There are no hydrologic concerns through the first half of next
weekend.

&&

.OKX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CT...None.
NY...None.
NJ...None.
MARINE...Small Craft Advisory until 4 AM EST early this morning for 
     ANZ331-332-340.
     Small Craft Advisory until 10 AM EST this morning for ANZ350-
     353.
     Small Craft Advisory until 7 AM EST this morning for ANZ355.

&&

$$

SYNOPSIS...BG/JP
NEAR TERM...BG/DS
SHORT TERM...BG
LONG TERM...JP
AVIATION...MET
MARINE...BG/JP
HYDROLOGY...BG/JP
