009 
FXUS61 KOKX 230552
AFDOKX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service New York NY
152 AM EDT Wed Apr 23 2025

.SYNOPSIS...
High pressure builds in slowly from the west overnight, and 
will be over the region Wednesday into Thursday. The high begins
to move offshore late Thursday into early Friday. A frontal 
system will move across the area Friday night into Saturday, 
followed by high pressure Sunday into Monday.

&&

.NEAR TERM /UNTIL 6 AM THIS MORNING/...
Have raised temperatures for the most part by a couple of
degrees in the hourly forecast database to cover the next few
hours as temperatures, especially in more urban locations are
running warmer than progged. Previous discussion follows.

High pressure begins to build in to the west. A light NW to N 
flow will persist through the overnight, though the light flow 
may end up becoming light and variable or calm at some 
locations. This may result in some outlying spots to cool a bit 
more than coastal or more urban locations. Lows overnight will 
generally be in the upper half of the 40s to lower and middle 
50s closer to the NYC metro. Outlying interior locations cool 
into the middle to possibly lower 40s.

&&

.SHORT TERM /6 AM THIS MORNING THROUGH 6 AM THURSDAY/...
Surface high pressure will build into the area into Wednesday 
with mid-level flow remaining fairly zonal. This will result in 
a slightly cooler airmass than Tuesday, though it should be much
clearer, especially along the coast. High temperatures will 
rise into the low 70s for much of the interior. NE NJ and the 
NYc metro may rise into the middle 70s with Long Island and the 
immediate coast topping out in the middle to upper 60s. 

High pressure overhead will result in fairly light flow which will 
allow for seabreezes to dominate the flow for the coast. The 
relatively cold ocean will prevent coastal areas from rising too 
high in temperature and is the reason highs will be lower in these 
locations.

High pressure continues to dominate into Wednesday night with light 
flow and clear skies. Low temperatures Wednesday night will be in 
the middle 40s to lower 50s with the warmer spots being in and 
around the NYC metro.

&&

.LONG TERM /THURSDAY THROUGH TUESDAY/...
12Z global models haven't changed much from their prior 00Z 
runs. They continue to fluctuate with the timing of the frontal 
system for late Friday into Saturday. The 12Z GFS is still the 
fastest of the globals, by about 12h. The timing seems to hinge 
on the complex interaction of southern branch PAC NW energy and 
multiple pieces of northern branch energy dropping across 
central Canada toward the end of this week. Remained close to 
the NBM during this time. 

High pressure offshore at the start of this period will retreat out 
into the Atlantic while the aforementioned frontal system brings a 
chance of showers into the area Friday afternoon with the most 
likely timeframe after midnight Friday through the day on Saturday. 
Marginal instability could result in isolated thunderstorms north 
and west of the NYC metro Saturday afternoon. Onshore flow and weak 
lapse rates should limit coverage, but kept slight chance for 
thunder for much of the area given the uncertainty in timing of the 
front. High pressure then builds in from the west Sunday into 
Monday. 

Temperatures remain above normal through Saturday, warmest Thursday 
night through Friday night (5 to 10 degrees). A return closer to 
normal is expected Sunday into Monday following the frontal
system.

&&

.AVIATION /06Z WEDNESDAY THROUGH SUNDAY/...
High pressure builds in from the west through the overnight, 
and will be over the region Wednesday.

VFR through the TAF period.

Following a cold frontal passage, winds will veer to NNW-N at 
10 kt or less overnight. The flow will then gradually back 
around to the WNW, with seabreeze or hybrid seabreeze 
development late morning into the afternoon at the coastal 
terminals. There is some uncertainty with the seabreeze timing 
due model differences in the depth and strength of the westerly 
flow during the afternoon hours. Wind will then become light and
variable Wednesday night.

 ...NY Metro (KEWR/KLGA/KJFK/KTEB) TAF Uncertainty...

Seabreeze timing could vary by 1-3 hours as there is some 
uncertainty with the depth and strength of the westerly flow in 
the afternoon hours. At this time, seabreezes are forecast to
make it into KJFK and KLGA, but not at KEWR and KTEB.

.OUTLOOK FOR 06Z THURSDAY THROUGH SUNDAY...

Late Wednesday night-Thursday: VFR.

Friday: VFR during the day.

Friday Night-Saturday: MVFR or lower in showers. An isolated 
thunderstorm possible Saturday. SW gusts 15-20 kt possible. 

Sunday: VFR. N gusts 15-20 kt possible.

Detailed information, including hourly TAF wind component forecasts, 
can be found at: https:/www.weather.gov/zny/n90

&&

.MARINE...
Light flow with high pressure building overhead will result in 
sub-SCA conditions through at least Friday. The next chance for 
SCA conditions will be Friday night into Saturday night with a 
frontal system moving across the waters. However, these 
conditions would only be marginal, should they occur. They will 
subside by Sunday morning, remaining below SCA criteria into the
beginning of next week.

&&

.HYDROLOGY...
At this time there are no hydrologic concerns through early next
week.

&&

.OKX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CT...None.
NY...None.
NJ...None.
MARINE...None.

&&

$$

SYNOPSIS...BR/MW
NEAR TERM...JE/BR
SHORT TERM...MW
LONG TERM...BR
AVIATION...DW
MARINE...BR/MET/MW
HYDROLOGY...BR/MW
