304 
FXUS61 KOKX 211405
AFDOKX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service New York NY
1005 AM EDT Mon Apr 21 2025

.SYNOPSIS...
High pressure slides east and offshore today. A warm front 
approaches the area this evening followed by a cold front on 
Tuesday into Tuesday night. High pressure then builds back in 
for Wednesday. High pressure remains over the region through 
Thursday night, followed by a frontal system Friday into 
Saturday. High pressure returns for the second half of the 
weekend.

&&

.NEAR TERM /THROUGH TONIGHT/...
Good model agreement on mid and upper ridging located over much
of the northeast shifting east, and flattening as an upper low 
dives out of the Northern Plains and heads over the Great Lakes.
The ridging aloft allows surface high pressure to move over the
area then offshore this afternoon. 

Dry, increasing cloudiness, and a few degrees below seasonable 
temps expected today with maritime flow under a strong 
subsidence inversion. 

Clouds will be on the increase during the 
afternoon as low and mid level moisture increases and a warm 
front approaches from the southwest. A few of the CAMs continue
to depict a few showers developing along the coast this 
afternoon along the nose of a strengthening llj in advance of 
approaching warm front. CAMs appears to be initializing too 
aggressive with this activity across the Mid- Atlantic this 
morning. Based on this, the prob of an isolated showers across 
the coastal plain is low, with more likely just a few sprinkles 
with a dry subcloud layer.

Under the southeasterly flow, highs at the coast should be in 
the lower to mid 50s, with upper 50s to around 60 for NYC and 
points across the interior.

&&

.SHORT TERM /TUESDAY THROUGH WEDNESDAY NIGHT/...
Winds become southerly then southwesterly overnight Monday into 
early Tuesday as moisture advection commences and the warm front 
shifts through, then north, of the area. Aloft, the flow becomes 
more zonal in nature, as the upper low heads toward Quebec. Guidance 
has been fairly consistent showing the core of light precipitation 
with this system associated with a pre-frontal trough, which looks 
to work through late Monday into early Tuesday morning, clearing the 
coast by mid to late morning. Given that the best forcing is 
north of the region and PWATS are generally less than 1", 
precipitation amounts look light (around 0.1-0.25"), with 
highest amounts over CT and the Lower Hudson Valley. Highs on 
Tuesday will be in the 70s, to near 80 across the urban NYC 
corridor. The cold front then passes through the area by Tuesday
afternoon, and winds become westerly by Tuesday night. Adjusted
the NBM temperatures up toward the 75th percentile, in line 
with the previous forecast, given that much of the day Tuesday 
the cold front slowly works east.

High pressure then builds over the northeast on Wednesday, 
resulting in another dry day locally, with highs in the lower 
70s under weak northerly flow.

&&

.LONG TERM /THURSDAY THROUGH SUNDAY/...
No significant changes in the long term and stuck fairly close to 
the previous forecast/NBM.

The long term period starts off with high pressure over the region 
with dry conditions and mostly clear skies for Wednesday night and 
Thursday. The high starts to slide east Thursday night and Friday, 
with another shortwave/low pressure system approaching for Friday 
into Saturday. The surface low is expected to pass north of the 
region with its associated cold front moving across the area during 
the day Saturday.  00z ECMWF is slightly faster than the 00z GFS 
timing of the front for Saturday afternoon, but only by a difference 
of a few hours. 

Overall, expected clouds to gradually increase Thursday night and 
early Friday, with POPs gradually increasing Friday afternoon. For 
now, looking at just some chance POPs Friday afternoon and into the 
first part of Friday night. POPs increase further after midnight 
Friday night into Saturday as a cold front approaches and moves 
across the region. POPs gradually taper off Saturday night with 
drier conditions expected for Sunday. 

Temperatures remain at or above normal for this time of year.

&&

.AVIATION /14Z MONDAY THROUGH FRIDAY/...
High pressure over the terminals will push east today. A warm front 
approaches tonight and lifts north of the terminals Tuesday
morning. 

VFR today. MVFR/IFR conditions tonight, along with some showers. 

Light and variable winds this morning become SE after 13z and 
increase through the day. Wind speeds around 10-13 kt expected 
in the afternoon. Gusts up to 20 kt are possible, mainly at NYC 
and coastal terminals. Tonight, winds diminish, falling below 
10kt. Wind become more southerly tonight, then SW to W with the
passage of a warm front early Tuesday morning.

 NY Metro (KEWR/KLGA/KJFK/KTEB) TAF Uncertainty...

Gusts this afternoon/evening may be occasional. 

Timing of potential showers and MVFR this evening/overnight may be 
off by 1-2 hours. 

.OUTLOOK FOR 12Z TUESDAY THROUGH FRIDAY...


Tuesday: Lingering shower possible early, mainly east of NYC
terminals. Becoming VFR in the morning. SW-W wind gusts 15-20 
kt possible.

Wednesday and Thursday: VFR.

Friday: Chance of MVFR and showers, mainly in the late afternoon
into the night.

Detailed information, including hourly TAF wind component forecasts, 
can be found at: https:/www.weather.gov/zny/n90

&&

.MARINE...
Occasional gusts to 25kts are possible for a short period on 
the ocean waters in advance of a frontal system tonight, but 
otherwise conditions are expected to remain below SCA levels 
through Friday in a weak pressure regime. 

Next chance for SCA conditions will be Friday night into 
Saturday with a frontal system moving across the area waters.

&&

.HYDROLOGY...
There are no hydrologic issues through next weekend.

&&

.OKX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CT...None.
NY...None.
NJ...None.
MARINE...None.

&&

$$

SYNOPSIS...BC/DBR
NEAR TERM...DBR/NV
SHORT TERM...DBR
LONG TERM...BC
AVIATION...BC
MARINE...BC/DBR
HYDROLOGY...BC/DBR
