682 
FXUS61 KOKX 210739
AFDOKX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service New York NY
339 AM EDT Mon Apr 21 2025

.SYNOPSIS...
High pressure anchored north of the area this morning slides east 
and offshore today. A warm front approaches the area this 
evening followed by a cold front on Tuesday into Tuesday night. 
High pressure then builds back in for Wednesday. High pressure 
remains over the region through Thursday night, followed by a 
frontal system Friday into Saturday. High pressure returns for 
the second half of the weekend.

&&

.NEAR TERM /THROUGH TONIGHT/...
Good model agreement on mid and upper ridging located over much of 
the northeast shifting east, and flattening as an upper low 
dives out of the Northern Plains and heads over the Great Lakes.
The ridging aloft allows surface high pressure to move over the
area then offshore this afternoon. Mainly dry conditions 
expected under the subsidence aloft, with surface winds becoming
easterly, then southeasterly by this afternoon as the sfc high 
works east. Clouds will be on the increase during the afternoon 
as low and mid level moisture increases and a warm front 
approaches from the southwest. A few of the CAMs (eg, 00Z HRRR) 
are depicting some shower activity across eastern LI, and 
interior CT Monday afternoon in advance of the warm front, but a
dry subcloud layer should limit any shower activity.

Under the easterly flow, highs at the coast should be in the mid and 
upper 50s, with perhaps a few degrees higher for NYC and points 
across the interior.


&&

.SHORT TERM /TUESDAY THROUGH WEDNESDAY NIGHT/...
Winds become southerly then southwesterly overnight Monday into 
early Tuesday as moisture advection commences and the warm front 
shifts through, then north, of the area. Aloft, the flow becomes 
more zonal in nature, as the upper low heads toward Quebec. Guidance 
has been fairly consistent showing the core of light precipitation 
with this system associated with a pre-frontal trough, which looks 
to work through late Monday into early Tuesday morning, clearing the 
coast by mid to late morning. Given that the best forcing is 
north of the region and PWATS are generally less than 1", 
precipitation amounts look light (around 0.1-0.25"), with 
highest amounts over CT and the Lower Hudson Valley. Highs on 
Tuesday will be in the 70s, to near 80 across the urban NYC 
corridor. The cold front then passes through the area by Tuesday
afternoon, and winds become westerly by Tuesday night. Adjusted
the NBM temperatures up toward the 75th percentile, in line 
with the previous forecast, given that much of the day Tuesday 
the cold front slowly works east.

High pressure then builds over the northeast on Wednesday, 
resulting in another dry day locally, with highs in the lower 
70s under weak northerly flow.


&&

.LONG TERM /THURSDAY THROUGH SUNDAY/...
No significant changes in the long term and stuck fairly close to 
the previous forecast/NBM.

The long term period starts off with high pressure over the region 
with dry conditions and mostly clear skies for Wednesday night and 
Thursday. The high starts to slide east Thursday night and Friday, 
with another shortwave/low pressure system approaching for Friday 
into Saturday. The surface low is expected to pass north of the 
region with its associated cold front moving across the area during 
the day Saturday.  00z ECMWF is slightly faster than the 00z GFS 
timing of the front for Saturday afternoon, but only by a difference 
of a few hours. 

Overall, expected clouds to gradually increase Thursday night and 
early Friday, with POPs gradually increasing Friday afternoon. For 
now, looking at just some chance POPs Friday afternoon and into the 
first part of Friday night. POPs increase further after midnight 
Friday night into Saturday as a cold front approaches and moves 
across the region. POPs gradually taper off Saturday night with 
drier conditions expected for Sunday. 

Temperatures remain at or above normal for this time of year. 

&&

.AVIATION /08Z MONDAY THROUGH FRIDAY/...
High pressure over the terminals will push east today. A warm front 
approaches tonight.

VFR today. MVFR with possible IFR conditions tonight in showers. 

NE winds around 5kt can be expected through sunrise. Some of the 
outlying terminals will see light and variable winds. The flow will 
become SE after 13z and increase through the day. Wind speeds around 
10-13 kt expected in the afternoon. Gusts up to 20 kt are possible, 
mainly at NYC and coastal terminals. Tonight, winds diminish, 
falling below 10kt. 

 NY Metro (KEWR/KLGA/KJFK/KTEB) TAF Uncertainty...

Gusts this afternoon/evening may end up occasional. 

Timing of potential showers and MVFR this evening/overnight may be 
off by 1-3 hours. 

.OUTLOOK FOR 06Z TUESDAY THROUGH FRIDAY...

Monday Night: MVFR developing with potential showers. IFR
possible overnight. 

Tuesday: Lingering shower possible early, mainly east of NYC
terminals. Becoming VFR in the morning. SW-W wind gusts 15-20 
kt possible.

Wednesday and Thursday: VFR.

Friday: Chance of MVFR and showers, mainly in the afternoon into
the night.

Detailed information, including hourly TAF wind component forecasts, 
can be found at: https:/www.weather.gov/zny/n90

&&

.MARINE...
Sub-SCA conditions are expected on all waters through Wednesday. 
Occasional gusts to 25kts are possible for a short period on the 
ocean waters in advance of a frontal system on Tuesday.

Conditions are expected to remain below SCA levels Wednesday night 
through Friday. SCA conditions will then be possible Friday night 
into Saturday with a frontal system moving across the area
waters. 
&&

.HYDROLOGY...
There are no hydrologic issues through next weekend.

&&

.OKX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CT...None.
NY...None.
NJ...None.
MARINE...None.

&&

$$

SYNOPSIS...BC/DBR
NEAR TERM...DBR
SHORT TERM...DBR
LONG TERM...BC
AVIATION...BC
MARINE...BC/DBR
HYDROLOGY...BC/DBR
