888 
FXUS61 KOKX 251052
AFDOKX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service New York NY
552 AM EST Sat Jan 25 2025

.SYNOPSIS...
High pressure builds in today, shifting east of the region 
tonight into Sunday. A frontal system moves across Sunday. High
pressure builds in for Monday. Strong low pressure passes well 
north of the area Monday night and drags a cold front through the 
area on Tuesday. Brief high pressure then moves in Tuesday night 
before a clipper low passes through on Wednesday into Wednesday.
High pressure likely builds in thereafter to end the week.

&&

.NEAR TERM /UNTIL 6 PM THIS EVENING/...
The forecast is on track with only minor changes needed.

High pressure builds in today, allowing the dry conditions to
continue. Zonal flow aloft will mean relatively quick moving
systems for the near and short term periods.

Continued well below normal temperatures expected today, with
highs in the upper 20s to lower 30s.

&&

.SHORT TERM /6 PM THIS EVENING THROUGH MONDAY/...
A weak upper level shortwave approaches from the Great Lakes
region tonight, along with a surface frontal system. The
associated warm front lifts north of the area late tonight. This
will allow winds to shift to the SW late in the day today and
continuing into tonight, with the flow strengthening for Sunday.
The front is expected to move through in the afternoon on
Sunday, but should do so dry as there is little moisture to work
with and much of the forcing lies north of the area. A stray
snow shower cannot be ruled out for eastern areas however as a
weak vorticity max moves through these areas, but decided to go
with a dry forecast as this is still too low of a chance to 
include in the forecast.

Monday will be dry with behind the departing cold front as
another cold front dives southeast over southern Canada, but 
remains well north of the area through the day.

Temperatures will warm overnight tonight thanks to warm
advection ahead of and behind the warm front. So, overnight lows
are expected to be set early in the evening. Highs on Sunday and
Monday are expected to be closer to normal for this time of
year.

&&

.LONG TERM /MONDAY NIGHT THROUGH FRIDAY/...
A strong upper level low and associated surface low pass well to the 
north of our area Monday night into Tuesday. An associated cold 
front looks to pass through the area sometime on Tuesday. The timing 
of the front has sped up a bit with the latest 00z guidance. Because 
of this, trended colder than the NBM for Tuesday's highs. Keeping 
the forecast dry for now as it looks like any precipitation will 
fall north of the area. However, can not completely rule out brief 
light snow showers across the interior just behind the front.

A clipper low then looks to move through on Wednesday, bringing a 
slight chance of snow showers to the area and rain/snow across much 
of Long Island. The bulk of any precipitation will be to our north 
where the greatest lift and moisture is. While it is still far out 
for forecast amounts, any snow we do get from this system will 
likely end up being very light amounts.

While some differences remain across the guidance, thereafter the 
general idea is that high pressure builds in to end the week. 
However, an upper level trough remains over the northeast and 
another weak low or two could move through as shortwaves spin around 
the broader trough. Colder air building in will also result in highs 
potentially not making it out of the 30s on Thursday and Friday, 
with lows each night in the single digits and teens.

&&

.AVIATION /12Z SATURDAY THROUGH WEDNESDAY/...
High pressure builds in from the southwest this morning, then shifts 
east of the area later today. A frontal system will approaches from 
the Great Lakes tonight. 

VFR. Mid and upper deck lowers this afternoon and evening. 

Winds will generally be light and variable to light N-NW. Winds will 
then shift to the SW around 10 kt late morning into the early 
afternoon with gusts up to 20kt possible.

 ...NY Metro (KEWR/KLGA/KJFK/KTEB) TAF Uncertainty...

Wind direction may be highly variable this morning around 5 kt or 
less. 

Gusts may be more occasional than frequent today.

.OUTLOOK FOR 06Z SUNDAY THROUGH WEDNESDAY...

Late tonight: VFR. 

Sunday-Tuesday: VFR. W-WSW gusts 20-25 kt.

Wednesday: Chance of MVFR or lower in snow showers. W gusts 20-25kt. 

Detailed information, including hourly TAF wind component forecasts, 
can be found at: https:/www.weather.gov/zny/n90

&&

.MARINE...
Winds and waves are expected to remain below SCA levels through
the day today. SW winds are expected to increase overnight as a
frontal system approaches from the west. Have expanded the SCA
across all non ocean waters except the harbor. Non ocean waters
may end up being more marginal or occasional. 


SCA is currently in effect for the ocean waters Saturday 
night through Sunday. With SCA gusts expected to be more 
marginal and intermittent on the non-ocean waters, held off on 
SCA issuance for non-ocean zones.

Winds diminish Sunday night, but increase once again on
Monday ahead of another approaching frontal system from Canada. 

Wave heights on the ocean build to 5 ft tonight, and peak at 5
to 7 ft on Sunday. They then diminish Sunday night, but may not
fall below 5 ft as they are expected to increase again late
Sunday night into Monday.

The Great South Bay and Peconic and Gardiners bays seem to have
some ice as seen from satellite imagery, so wave heights in the
Coastal Waters Forecast would only be for ice free waters. 

Strong low pressure passes well to the north of the area Monday 
night, but will bring gusty conditions to the waters. At least SCA 
conditions are expected on all waters, with the potential for gales. 
At this time the highest confidence in gales is over the two eastern 
ocean zones, where an HWO is highlighted. Given the strong winds, 
seas are also forecast to reach 8-12 feet over the two eastern ocean 
zones. SCA conditions then look to linger through Tuesday on all non 
ocean waters and Tuesday night for the ocean waters.

The passing of a clipper low will then bring the next chance for SCA 
conditions Wednesday into Wednesday night and then they likely 
continue as high pressure builds into the area through the end of 
the week.

&&

.HYDROLOGY...
No significant hydrologic impacts through next week.

&&

.OKX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CT...None.
NY...None.
NJ...None.
MARINE...Small Craft Advisory from 6 PM this evening to 7 AM EST Sunday 
     for ANZ331-332-335-340-345.
     Small Craft Advisory from 6 PM this evening to 6 PM EST Sunday 
     for ANZ350-353-355.

&&

$$

SYNOPSIS...JP/JT
NEAR TERM...JP
SHORT TERM...JP
LONG TERM...JT
AVIATION...JT
MARINE...JP/JT
HYDROLOGY...JP/JT
