553 
FXUS61 KOKX 240521
AFDOKX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service New York NY
121 AM EDT Thu Apr 24 2025

.SYNOPSIS...
High pressure in place currently moves offshore later today, 
while remaining in control through Thursday night before moving
further offshore Friday. A frontal system approaches Friday 
night and moves across on Saturday, followed by high pressure 
Sunday into late Monday. Another frontal system may impact the 
area by midweek.

&&

.NEAR TERM /UNTIL 6 AM THIS MORNING/...
Forecast is on track with only minor adjustments to the hourly
database through the overnight to better account for the most 
recent observations / trends. Any window for smoke from the
southern NJ wildfires to approach the NYC metro and Long Island
for the overnight has come and passed. The HRRR smoke guidance
was way overdone and upstream observations suggest no sensible
impacts with 10 mile and greater visibilities being reported. 
Thus mainly clear skies with much of any high clouds zipping by 
to the south and off the central and southern NJ coast.

High pressure at the surface will be mainly centered over our 
region, leading to very light flow under the weak pressure 
gradient. Winds will become south synoptically overnight 
as the center of the high gets just to our east. 

Heights will continue to climb aloft from mid and upper level 
ridging. With ample subsidence, expecting clear skies to prevail 
overnight. 

Lows overnight will be near or just above climatological 
averages in the mid-40s to low-50s (up to mid-50s in the NYC 
metro).

&&

.SHORT TERM /6 AM THIS MORNING THROUGH 6 AM FRIDAY/...
Surface high pressure will gradually push offshore Thursday 
into Thursday night. Heights aloft will also continue to rise 
through this period. 

High pressure remains mainly in control during the day and 
early night, leading to skies remaining clear and dry conditions
prevailing, but cloud cover will begin to gradually increase 
late Thursday night as a frontal system approaches the region.

Temperatures will be above average on Thursday as the jet 
stream remains north of the area and heights continue to rise 
aloft. Due to light synoptic flow and warmer temperatures on 
land with much cooler ocean and LI sound waters, expecting 
another sea breeze on Thursday. Coastal areas will remain cooler
than interior areas because of this. Highs towards the coast 
will be in the 60s while the interior will reach the mid-70s to 
near 80. 

Overnight Thursday, lows will be warmer under a more light 
southwesterly flow in the mid/low-50s.

&&

.LONG TERM /FRIDAY THROUGH WEDNESDAY/...
Surface high pressure will move offshore Friday with an increasing 
SW flow over the area on the backside of the retreating high. This 
SW flow will result in above normal temperatures with highs on 
Friday in the upper 70s to near 80 for much of the interior areas. 
Coastal areas will remain in the upper 60s to low 70s. Partly cloudy 
skies in the morning will gradually become more cloud covered toward 
evening as a frontal system approaches from the west. There is a 
chance that low stratus develops for the coast toward Friday evening 
with an onshore flow increasing low level moisture. Drizzle is 
possible as well for these areas.

By Friday night, the center of the low pressure develops over the 
Great Lakes region and begins to push northeast in response to a 
digging mid-level trough. Given the ample amounts of low level 
moisture with dew points climbing into the 50s under a S/SW flow, 
rain showers become increasingly likely overnight and into Saturday 
morning with the approach of the cold front from the west. Models 
are in general agreement as to the timing and evolution of the cold 
frontal passage but the precipitation associated with it is a bit 
uncertain. Higher resolution models have the shower activity being 
more scattered with isolated thunderstorms developing late Friday 
night and into Saturday with global models having a more widespread 
stratiform rain with possible embedded thunderstorms.

The cold front will slowly make its way through the area on Saturday 
before finally moving through by evening. Rain showers will be 
likely for much of the area Saturday with possible isolated 
thunderstorms during the afternoon and evening hours ahead of the 
frontal passage. Given the shower activity and cloud cover, high 
temperatures Saturday will be cooler than Friday with highs in the 
middle 60s to low 70s. Total rainfall accumulations at this time are 
expected to be 0.5 to 0.75 inches, with locally higher amounts 
possible in any thunderstorms.

The cold front pushes through by Saturday evening with high pressure 
building in the area from Sunday and into Monday. This will result 
in dry but cooler conditions for Sunday with highs in the 60s. As 
mid-level heights rise with a developing mid-level ridge on the back 
side of the surface high pressure, temperatures should increase as 
well through the middle of the week. Highs on Monday will be in the 
upper 60s to middle 70s with Tuesday climbing to near 80 for the 
western portions of the CWA away from the coast. Another frontal 
system may approach the area from the west by Wednesday.

&&

.AVIATION /06Z THURSDAY THROUGH MONDAY/...
VFR. High pressure remains over the area early this morning, then 
drifts offshore through this evening. 

Light and variable flow at all terminals through 13z. A light E to 
SE flow will then develop, gradually increasing into the afternoon 
as the direction becomes SSE-S. Wind speeds will likely be around 10-
13 kt with sea breeze enhancement. Winds will then veer to the SW 
this evening as speeds fall below 10 kt. 

 ...NY Metro (KEWR/KLGA/KJFK/KTEB) TAF Uncertainty...

NE flow may linger 1-2 hours longer into early afternoon before 
shifting to the SE.

.OUTLOOK FOR 06Z FRIDAY THROUGH MONDAY...

Thursday night-Friday: VFR. Late Friday S winds G15-20 kt.

Friday Night-Saturday: MVFR or lower in showers. An isolated 
thunderstorm possible Saturday. S/SW gusts 15-20 kt, becoming W-NW 
in the afternoon/evening, gusting 20-25 kt.

Sunday: VFR. N gusts 15-20 kt possible.

Monday: VFR.

Detailed information, including hourly TAF wind component forecasts, 
can be found at: https:/www.weather.gov/zny/n90


&&

.MARINE...
Sub advisory conditions are expected through Thu night under 
high pressure.

Sub-SCA conditions are expected Friday with an increasing S flow 
resulting in SCA on the ocean by early Saturday morning. Gusts to 25 
kt will be possible with wave heights 5-7 feet for the ocean on 
Saturday. The Great South Bay, Eastern LIS, and the eastern bays may 
also have SCA conditions with 25kt gusts. Conditions for the non-
ocean waters fall below SCA by Saturday night with wave heights 
remaining above 5 feet on the ocean through at least Sunday morning. 
Sub-SCA conditions are then expected on all waters through at least 
Monday.

&&

.HYDROLOGY...
While WPC has the area in a marginal risk for excessive rainfall on 
Saturday, rainfall should come over a long enough period to not 
cause any widespread hydrologic issues. Total accumulations of 0.5 
to 0.75 inches expected with locally higher amounts possible in any 
thunderstorms.

&&

.OKX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CT...None.
NY...Air Quality Alert until midnight EDT tonight for NYZ069>075-
     078>081-176>179.
NJ...None.
MARINE...None.

&&

$$

SYNOPSIS...BR/MW
NEAR TERM...JE/BR
SHORT TERM...BR
LONG TERM...MW
AVIATION...DS
MARINE...BR/MET/MW
HYDROLOGY...BR/MW
