644 
FXUS61 KOKX 172046
AFDOKX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service New York NY
346 PM EST Mon Feb 17 2025

.SYNOPSIS...
Low pressure meanders near the Canadian Maritimes tonight as a 
strong high drops down into the Central US. The high gradually 
Wednesday. An area of low pressure ejects off the Southeast US 
coast Wednesday night and passes well south and east of the area
Thursday. High pressure builds in from the west for the end of 
the week and into next weekend.

&&

.NEAR TERM /UNTIL 6 AM TUESDAY MORNING/...
High pressure continues to build in tonight. Aside from a few 
possible flurries over southern CT into early this evening, dry 
weather expected through the night. 

The plan is to allow the wind advisory to expire at 6pm this evening 
as peak wind gusts over the past few hours have lowered. Still can't 
rule out a gust or two to 40kt this evening, mainly over the CT 
zones where some guidance has winds aloft increasing. Since the 
mixing depth will be more limited heading into tonight, no plans at 
this time to extend the advisory over the CT zones.

Cold and breezy with lows in the teens for most spots an only around 
20 in the city. Wind chills bottom out late tonight into the single 
digits for NYC metro and in the single digits below zero elsewhere. 
This is short of Cold Weather Advisory criteria. 

&&

.SHORT TERM /6 AM TUESDAY MORNING THROUGH TUESDAY NIGHT/...
Still breezy for Tuesday as high pressure builds in from the west 
with WNW winds gusting to 30-40mph. Dry, mostly sunny, but colder 
than today with highs only 25-30 in most spots. Wind chills rise 
only into the teens during the afternoon.

Winds will at least diminish Tuesday night as a high pressure ridge 
shifts closer. Low temperatures in the teens for most spots with 
minimum wind chills a few degrees warmer than tonight due to the 
weaker winds.

&&

.LONG TERM /WEDNESDAY THROUGH MONDAY/...
* Chance continues to decrease for a winter storm in the Wed night 
  to Thursday night time frame.

* Remaining cold with temperatures running 5 to 10 degrees below 
  normal.

1050-1058 mb arctic high pressure continues to nose in from the 
north and west Wednesday, keeping the region dry through the day 
Wednesday. Though as a baroclinic zone sets up over the South, low 
pressure develops and deepens as shortwave energy swings through 
midweek. This low is expected to trek east and eject off the 
Southeast coast Wednesday night, to south and east of the region 
into Thursday, before exiting well out to sea. Current deterministic 
model suite continue the trend of the low passing well east of the 
40/70 benchmark. Current NBM of 6" or greater in a 24 hour period is 
0% from about central Long Island westward, with about a 20% chance 
for Montauk. In fact, chance of an inch or greater ranges from only 
45% for the south fork of Long Island, to about 15% across northeast 
NJ. 

The low passes out to sea regardless by late Thursday, and high 
pressure returns once again from the west. This high remains west of 
the area through much of the weekend, providing dry but cold 
conditions.

As for ensembles, current ECMWF ensemble give coastal areas a 10-30% 
chance of 24 total precip of great than half an inch liquid 
equivalent, down from 30-40% from yesterday, while the same metric 
is only 10-20% with the GFS ensemble which is about the same as 
yesterday. Current NBM probability of 0.60" of liquid equivalent 
(Winter Storm Warning criteria in 12 hours with 10:1 ratio) shows a 
10-30% chance in 12 hours. The higher probabilities are being pushed 
farther east with each successive model run, showing the trend of 
moisture being pushed offshore.

Low pressure treks northeast Thursday night into Friday while high 
pressure builds in from the west. This high will remain west of the 
area through much of the weekend, providing dry, but cold 
conditions. 

&&

.AVIATION /21Z MONDAY THROUGH SATURDAY/...
Deep low pressure over the Canadian Maritimes remains nearly 
stationary, and begins to weaken Tuesday, as strong high pressure 
gradually builds from the west.

VFR. Strong and gusty west winds persist into Tuesday, with winds 
and gusts diminishing this evening. West winds and gusts increase 
during the day Tuesday, gusting 30 to 35 kt.

 ...NY Metro (KEWR/KLGA/KJFK/KTEB) TAF Uncertainty...

No unscheduled AMD expected.


.OUTLOOK FOR 18Z TUESDAY THROUGH SATURDAY...

Tuesday afternoon: VFR. W winds G30 to 35 kt. 

Wednesday: VFR. 

Thursday: Mainly VFR. A chance of snow during the afternoon and into 
the evening with MVFR, possibly IFR especially east of the New York 
City terminals.

Friday: VFR. NW winds G20 to 25 kt.

Saturday: VFR.

Detailed information, including hourly TAF wind component forecasts, 
can be found at: https:/www.weather.gov/zny/n90

&&

.MARINE...
A Gale Warning has replaced the storm warning on the ocean waters 
with observed gusts falling below Storm Warning criteria for several 
hours now. Gale warnings last through Tuesday morning on the non-
ocean waters, and covers through Tuesday afternoon on the ocean. The 
warning may need to be extended for a few hours beyond this on the 
ocean waters east of Moriches Inlet. Expecting some light freezing 
spray on all waters tonight into Tuesday, but not heavy enough to 
warrant an advisory.

With cold air moving in, and the combination of strong winds and 
high seas, there is a chance of freezing spray Wednesday. At this 
time, ice accretion is expected to remain below Advisory criteria, 
but will continue to monitor conditions should one be needed.

With the continued eastward progression of a coastal low, SCA for 
Wednesday into Thursday are no longer expected (with the exception 
of some lingering 5 ft waves Wednesday morning across the eastern 
ocean zone). Winds and waves build Thursday night as the pressure 
gradient between the exiting low and an incoming high pressure 
increases. Gusts on the ocean waters are expected to be 25 to 30 kt, 
with waves building to 4 to 6 ft. Conditions return to sub-SCA late 
Friday night onward.

&&

.HYDROLOGY...
No hydrologic impacts expected into the beginning of next
weekend.

&&

.TIDES/COASTAL FLOODING...
Based on observed tides during the low tide cycle this morning and 
guidance from P-ETSS/NAEFS and the 5th percentile NYHOPS, have 
issued a low water advisory for this evening along western LI Sound 
as well as Peconic and Gardiners Bays. Anticipating levels to drop 
to -2 to -2.5 MLLW. Not as confident for widespread low water issues 
along the north shore of Suffolk County as well as along Staten 
Island, but it may be close. The combination of relatively strong W 
to WNW winds and astronomically predicted low tides will pose a 
threat of low water advisory conditions for the low tide cycles 
during Tuesday morning and night for all of the above mentioned 
areas, particularly where the advisory is currently in effect for 
tonight.

&&

.OKX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CT...Wind Advisory until 6 PM EST this evening for CTZ005>012.
NY...Wind Advisory until 6 PM EST this evening for NYZ067>075-
     078>081-176>179.
NJ...Wind Advisory until 6 PM EST this evening for NJZ002-004-006-
     103>108.
MARINE...Gale Warning until noon EST Tuesday for ANZ331-332-335-338-340-
     345.
     Low Water Advisory from 7 PM to 10 PM EST this evening for 
     ANZ335-340.
     Gale Warning until 6 PM EST Tuesday for ANZ350-353-355.

&&

$$

SYNOPSIS...JC/JP
NEAR TERM...JC
SHORT TERM...JC
LONG TERM...JP
AVIATION...MET
MARINE...JC/JP
HYDROLOGY...JC/JP
TIDES/COASTAL FLOODING...JC
