489 
FXUS61 KOKX 222352
AFDOKX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service New York NY
652 PM EST Sat Feb 22 2025

.SYNOPSIS...
High pressure remains centered to the south of the area through
Sunday, then moves offshore Sunday night into Monday. A weak 
cold front moves through Tuesday night. Weak high pressure 
briefly returns Wednesday before a quick moving frontal system 
likely affects the region Wednesday might into Thursday. This 
will be followed by a series of cold fronts passing through the
region Friday into the weekend.

&&

.NEAR TERM /UNTIL 6 AM SUNDAY MORNING/...
A relatively quiet period heading into Monday with series of 
short wave troughs moving through in the WNW upper level flow 
aloft. The first of which will send a surface trough across the 
area tonight, preceded by some mid and high level cloudiness. 
This will result in a SW surface flow that veers back to the 
west late tonight. There is some uncertainty due to the cloud 
cover and winds staying up a bit as to how much some of the 
normally colder spots radiate. Regardless, expect lows close to 
normal, ranging from the lower 20s inland, and 25-30 at the 
coast.

&&

.SHORT TERM /6 AM SUNDAY MORNING THROUGH MONDAY/...
Expect temperatures to gradually warm Sunday into Monday as low
pressure passes over central Canada Sunday and then north of 
the Great Lakes and into eastern Canada on Monday. Any 
precipitation with the system will stay well north and west of 
the area. After mainly clear skies for Sunday, warm advection 
ahead of the system will allow increasing mid and high level 
cloudiness for Sunday night. Conditions will then clear Monday 
with the warm front passing well to the north and west. 

High temperatures will be close to normal Sunday in the upper
30s to lower 40s, then into the lower and mid 40s Monday. Lows
Monday morning will range from the mid to upper 20s across most
locations, except around freezing for the NYC metro. The latter
is slightly above normal.

&&

.LONG TERM /MONDAY NIGHT THROUGH SATURDAY/...
Key Points:

* Temperatures will likely run 5 to 10 degrees above normal Tuesday 
  through Thursday. A return to more seasonable temps for Fri/Sat, 
  and possibly below normal to end the weekend. 

* Mainly dry conditions are expected through mid week. A quick 
  moving frontal system will likely affect the region Wed Night into 
  Thursday.

Quasi-zonal upper flow through early next week with PAC jet riding 
the northern tier of the CONUS around expansive polar trough across 
southern Canada. Within this flow, a series of shortwaves will 
traverse the northern tier of the US towards the region. First 
shortwave of note (PAC origin), will eject from the Rockies into 
northern plains Monday and towards the region by Tuesday Night. The 
result will be a quick moving frontal system. The trend with this 
system is drier, being a progressive and weak system with limited 
precip (rain) potential. Latest ECMWF and ensemble has also trended 
more suppressed with the potential interaction of this northern 
stream shortwave with a southern branch shortwave, keeping 
developing offshore low pressure well se of the region. This is 
inline with GEFS and CMC ensembles. 

The main implication of this system will be just a brief 
interruption of amplified SW flow into the NE US on Wednesday, but 
otherwise a continuation of temps several degrees above seasonable 
levels Tue thru Thu. Potential for temps to make a run at 60 degrees 
for NJ metro on Tuesday with enough sunshine.

Thereafter, general model agreement in further longitudinal 
amplification of troughing across the Eastern US for late week 
period in response to a more vigorous PAC shortwave diving through 
the Central US into the southern Mid Atlantic. ECE and GEFS coming 
into better agreement with this trough amplitude/timing, and 
depicting a progressive and mild frontal system moving through the 
region Thu/Thu night. A shot of Canadian air and return to more 
seasonable temps on Friday, with perhaps a few rain/snow showers as 
trough axis moves through.

Better general agreement in polar troughing exerting more influence 
on the NE US for the second half of the weekend into early next 
week, in wake of a clipper system tracking through southern 
Ontario/Quebec and northern New England on Saturday. This would 
signal a return to below normal temps during this time period.

&&

.AVIATION /00Z SUNDAY THROUGH THURSDAY/...
VFR as high pressure remains centered to our south.

SSW-SW winds around 10 kt or less this evening. Winds will veer
to the WSW-W overnight with speeds under 10 kt. Winds continue 
to veer to the W-WNW Sunday and speeds increase to around 10 kt 
by late morning and afternoon. Winds diminish Sunday evening.

 ...NY Metro (KEWR/KLGA/KJFK/KTEB) TAF Uncertainty...

Winds may remain more S a few hours longer this evening.

.OUTLOOK FOR 00Z MONDAY THROUGH THURSDAY...

Sunday Night-Monday: VFR.

Tuesday: Chance afternoon showers and MVFR north of the city 
terminals, otherwise VFR.

Wednesday: VFR.

Thursday: Rain showers and MVFR possible. Mixed rain/snow 
showers possible at KSWF.

Detailed information, including hourly TAF wind component
forecasts, can be found at: https:/www.weather.gov/zny/n90

&&

.MARINE...
Sub-SCA conditions are on tap through Monday with high pressure
to the south through Sunday, then retreating offshore early 
next week. SW-W winds tonight will increase through the early 
morning hours and may bump 20-25 kt on the ocean waters for a 
short time with seas building to 3 to 4 ft. Conditions then 
subside Sunday into Monday. 

Potential for marginal S/SW SCA gusts on the ocean waters Mon Night 
into Tuesday in the wake of warm frontal passage and ahead of 
approaching trough. Potential for a triple point low has decreased 
over the last 24 hours, limiting the duration magnitude of S/SW 
winds, limiting potential for seas building to SCA Mon Night/Tue. 

Otherwise, likely return to sub SCA conds Tue Night into Wed as weak 
high pressure builds. Next chance for SCA conds on the ocean late 
Wed Night into Thu with strengthening SSW flow ahead of next 
approaching frontal system.

&&

.HYDROLOGY...
No hydrologic impacts are expected through the the end of next 
week.

&&

.OKX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CT...None.
NY...None.
NJ...None.
MARINE...None.

&&

$$

SYNOPSIS...NV/DW
NEAR TERM...NV/DW
SHORT TERM...DW
LONG TERM...NV
AVIATION...DS
MARINE...NV/DW
HYDROLOGY...NV/DW
