514 
FXUS61 KOKX 151813
AFDOKX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service New York NY
113 PM EST Wed Jan 15 2025

.SYNOPSIS...
High pressure gradually builds in from the west through tonight,
then gives way to a weakening frontal system that approaches 
from the west on Thursday. High pressure will then briefly 
follow for Friday. A cold front moves through this weekend with 
a series of frontal waves passing near or south and east of the 
area through early next week. Strong high pressure then brings a
frigid airmass through the middle of next week.

&&

.NEAR TERM /THROUGH TONIGHT/...
With high pressure building into the region, and a relatively 
dry airmass, have updated sky grids to lower coverage, and dew 
points, which were running a few degrees lower than forecast. 
Otherwise, gusty northwest winds continue through the afternoon.

Deepening low pressure east of the Canadian Maritimes will move
farther out into the North Atlantic through tonight, while high
pressure centered over the Ohio Valley works slowly east. As 
the pressure gradient begins to weaken later today into tonight 
winds will begin to weaken. Before then though, plan on NW gusts
today of 25 to 30 mph. The airmass will be colder with highs 
ranging form the upper 20s inland, to the lower 30s along the 
coast. This is about 5 to 8 degrees below normal. For tonight, 
with gradually diminishing winds, lows will bottom out in the 
mid to upper teens for most locations, except the lower 20s for 
the NYC metro.

&&

.SHORT TERM /THURSDAY THROUGH FRIDAY/...
The surface ridge axis moves into the area toward daybreak 
Thursday and then east with a developing light southwest flow. 
An amplifying shortwave trough digging SE from the Great Lakes 
on Thursday will result in increasing clouds mainly in the 
afternoon. The associated frontal system dissipates as it 
approaches the area, however, there should be some lift with the
upper trough as it works across the area during the afternoon 
and nighttime hours. NBM PoPs are negligible for most of area 
with the exception of far eastern LI. However, this consensus 
approach with upper level disturbances in the NW flow has at 
times been deficient this season. Nam3km and HRRR simulated 
reflectivity also show increasing returns from late afternoon 
into the evening overspreading the area. Thus, have introduced 
20 to 30 PoPs for snow shower activity Thursday afternoon and 
night. The precipitation looks to be light with possibly a 
couple of hundredths of an inch liquid equivalent. One area to 
watch though is far eastern LI where weak low pressure develops 
to the southeast. This could increase the liquid equivalent 
some with perhaps a light coating of snowfall. However, 
confidence is low at this time. Highs Thursday will be in the 
upper 20s to lower 30s with nighttime lows in the teens inland 
and 20s at the coast. 

The upper trough passes to the east early Friday with shortwave
ridging moving in ahead of another amplifying trough moving 
into central Canada and the upper Midwest. This will become a 
player in the weather over the weekend. At the surface, high
pressure will work across the area. Temperatures will warm some
with highs in the upper 30s to around 40 with plenty of sunshine.

&&

.LONG TERM /FRIDAY NIGHT THROUGH TUESDAY/...
Surface high pressure south of the area on Friday night and a large 
low pressure north of the Great Lakes region in Canada will allow 
for increased southerly flow for the area. This will increase 
moisture and temperatures ahead of an approaching cold front from 
the parent low moving well north of the area on Saturday. Increased 
temperatures into the upper 30s and low 40s will allow for mainly 
rain to fall over the area on Saturday with the cold frontal 
passage. A frontal wave looks to develop along the cold front to the 
south of the area and pass to the south and east, largely missing 
the area as it passes by Saturday night into Sunday.

In the wake of the departing cold front, mid-level energy continues 
to approach the area from the southwest and develops a weak low 
pressure system over the Southeast US and Mid-Atlantic. There is 
some uncertainty as to how quickly and where the low develops and 
eventually tracks which will determine out p-type and the amount of 
precipitation the area receives. The ECMWF and CMC are more on board 
with a closer low pressure system passing to the south bringing a 
period of light rain/snow or mix of both to the area, where the GFS 
has a more suppressed and slower system that more closely follows 
the departing cold front offshore through early Monday. 

Beyond Monday, much of the week looks dry and cold as an arctic high 
pressure system settles over much of the Central US. The area will 
remain in between a large low pressure system well to the northeast 
and the approaching high pressure so a brisk and persistent NW flow 
will allow for dry and frigid air to move into the area for the 
middle of the week. High temperatures on Tuesday may not rise out of 
the low 20s for much of the area with cold temperatures remaining 
for Wednesday with highs in the mid-20s.

&&

.AVIATION /18Z WEDNESDAY THROUGH MONDAY/...
High pressure gradually builds in through tonight and moves
offshore Thursday. A low pressure area with an associated cold
front then approaches from the north and west late in the TAF 
period.

VFR conditions expected through the TAF period. Winds still
gusty through this afternoon into this evening. Gusts diminish
overnight with a possible return of gusts Thursday afternoon.

Winds overall remain NW this afternoon around 15-20 kt with
gusts near 30 kt. Some occasional peak gusts near 35 kt are
possible. Winds decrease this evening to near 10-15 kt with
gusts more in the 20-25 kt range. 

Overnight into Thursday morning, winds become more westerly 
near 10 kt, before coming more SW for Thursday afternoon. Some 
occasional 15-20 kt gusts are possible Thursday afternoon.

 ...NY Metro (KEWR/KLGA/KJFK/KTEB) TAF Uncertainty... 

Peak gusts 3-5 kts higher than gusts in TAF are possible before
05Z Thursday.

Timing of when gusts end in the TAF could be 1-3 hours off.

SW gusts 15-20 kt possible Thursday afternoon.

.OUTLOOK FOR 18Z THURSDAY THROUGH SUNDAY...

Thursday: Mainly VFR. Occasional SW wind gusts 15-20 kt 
possible afternoon. Light snow showers possible, mainly at night
with MVFR or lower possible.

Friday: Mainly VFR.

Saturday: MVFR or lower at times with rain likely, possible snow at 
night. SW wind gusts 15-20 kt during the day.

Sunday: Chance for MVFR or lower at times with increasing
chances of snow, with rain/snow mix for coastal terminals day
into early evening. Snow tapers off late Sunday night.

Monday: Mainly VFR. NW wind gusts near 20 kt.

Detailed information, including hourly TAF wind component forecasts, 
can be found at: https:/www.weather.gov/zny/n90

&&

.MARINE...
Made minor adjustments to the wind gusts and ocean seas into
this afternoon for current conditions and trends. Otherwise no 
other changes were made.

A gusty NW flow of 20 to 30 kt will continue on all waters 
through the day, but diminish toward evening. Sub-SCA conditions
are forecast to develop across the non-ocean waters by early 
this evening, and by early morning on the ocean. Expect sub-SCA 
conditions as a frontal system dissipates to the west on 
Thursday and high pressure builds over the area on Friday. 

SCA conditions likely develop on the ocean with gusts of 25kt and 
waves near 5 feet ahead of a cold frontal system for a brief period 
on Saturday before falling back down below SCA conditions Saturday 
night. Waves develop once again Sunday afternoon with increased NW 
flow allowing for SCA conditions into at least early Monday.

&&

.HYDROLOGY...
No significant hydrologic impacts are expected into early next 
week.

&&

.OKX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CT...None.
NY...None.
NJ...None.
MARINE...Small Craft Advisory until 6 PM EST this evening for ANZ331-
     332-335-338-340-345.
     Small Craft Advisory until 1 AM EST Thursday for ANZ350-353-
     355.

&&

$$

SYNOPSIS...DW/MW
NEAR TERM...MET/DW
SHORT TERM...DW
LONG TERM...MW
AVIATION...JM
MARINE...MET/DW/MW
HYDROLOGY...DW/MW
