393 
FXUS61 KOKX 220315
AFDOKX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service New York NY
1115 PM EDT Thu Aug 21 2025

.SYNOPSIS...
Hurricane Erin continues to track northeast into the open 
Atlantic ocean overnight. High pressure builds in thereafter 
for the end of the week into at least the start of the weekend. 
A frontal system approaches Sunday and moves through the area 
Monday. High pressure then gradually builds in for the middle to
end of next week. Please refer to NHC forecasts for further 
information on Hurricane Erin.

&&

.NEAR TERM /THROUGH FRIDAY/...
Key Points

* Shoreline and coastal impacts will peak through around 
  midnight, with a gradual improvement into Friday morning. See 
  TIDES/COASTAL FLOODING section below.

Hurricane Erin continues Hurricane Erin continues to track 
northeast into the open Atlantic ocean overnight. Winds will
gradually subside overnight with gusts to 20 kt becoming 
occasional. Lows tonight will fall into the 50s and lower 60s.

&&

.SHORT TERM /FRIDAY NIGHT THROUGH SATURDAY NIGHT/...
Key Points

* Minor shoreline impacts continue in the short term. See 
  TIDES/COASTAL FLOODING section below.

The pressure gradient weakens quickly on Friday as Hurricane Erin 
moves farther east and high pressure builds in. Dry and sunny 
conditions are expected Friday and Saturday with highs back in 
the 80s. An approaching frontal system may bring showers to 
extreme western portions of the area as early as late Saturday 
night. Followed the NBM during this period.

&&

.LONG TERM /SUNDAY THROUGH THURSDAY/...
The NBM was largely followed with this update with no major changes. 

Key Points:

* Shower/thunderstorm chances late Sunday and Monday. Mainly dry 
  conditions thereafter.

* Generally normal to slightly below normal temperatures for the 
  period.

The global models are in decent agreement on the upcoming synoptic 
pattern. Upper ridge axis shifts east of the area Sunday. A deep 
closed low over eastern Canada with an h5 trough over the eastern 
2/3 of the CONUS then follows for much of the rest of the extended 
timeframe. This will keep the local area in predominately 
west/southwest flow aloft.

At the sfc, a cold front approaches on Sunday into early Monday with 
precipitation chances increasing from west to east Sunday afternoon. 
PWATs do increase to 1-1.5" ahead of the front, which suggests the 
possibility of heavier rainfall with any deeper convection. However, 
depending on the timing of the frontal passage, which looks to be 
late on Sunday into very early Monday, instability will be limited 
per BUFKIT soundings, so not expecting much in the way of widespread 
thunder. North and west of NYC would see the best chance of thunder, 
late Sunday afternoon/evening. The front passes through the area on 
Monday and is offshore by early Tuesday. High pressure then builds 
back in from the Central Plains, for the remainder of the
period.

&&

.AVIATION /02Z FRIDAY THROUGH TUESDAY/...
High pressure builds to the west tonight and then southwest on
Friday, as Hurricane Erin passes well to the southeast of the 
area. Please refer to the National Hurricane Center for further 
information on Hurricane Erin.

VFR through the period. NE winds and gusts continue to subside 
overnight, increasing to N 10-15g20kt for AM push. Winds and 
gusts gradually subside Friday afternoon, with weak late day S 
seabreeze for most terminals. Light/variable S/SSW flow for Fri 
eve push.

 ...NY Metro (KEWR/KLGA/KJFK/KTEB) TAF Uncertainty...

Gusts will be occasional overnight, becoming more frequent to 20kt
during morning push and continue into the afternoon. Winds will
likely be veered a bit more NE for KLGA. Late day S seabreeze 
likely for JFK/KLGA, and SE for KEWR.

.OUTLOOK FOR 00Z SATURDAY THROUGH TUESDAY...

Friday Night thru Saturday: VFR.

Sunday and Monday: Scattered Sun PM into Mon PM showers, 
isolated tstm possible in the aft/eve. MVFR conds possible Sun 
AM, and Sun Night into Mon AM.

Tuesday: VFR

Detailed information, including hourly TAF wind component forecasts, 
can be found at: https:/www.weather.gov/zny/n90

&&

.MARINE...
A Gale Warning stair steps down from w to e overnight, with a 
Small Craft Advisory in effect elsewhere.

Winds and seas are peaking at 35 to 40 kt gusts on the ocean 
waters and 25 to 30 kt late this evening with significant wave 
height of 14 to 18 feet and occasional waves 20+ feet. 5 to 9 
ft waves likely occurring in far eastern Long Island Sound and 
5 to 6 ft at the entrance to the NY Harbor.

Winds expected to decrease to SCA on the ocean water late
tonight into early Friday morning fro w to e, with seas 
subsiding to 8 to 12 ft, and transitioning to primarily an 
easterly swell with shortening period. Similarly conditions will
be improving on the nearshore waters as well. 

Winds continue to decrease pretty on Friday, but the ocean will
likely need a Small Craft Advisory through Saturday or Saturday
night for lingering 5ft seas. SCA conditions may linger on the 
ocean waters Sunday with elevated seas. Conditions then remain 
below Small Craft Advisory thereafter into mid next week.

&&

.HYDROLOGY...
There are no hydrologic concerns through the middle of next
week.

&&

.TIDES/COASTAL FLOODING...
A High Surf Advisory and High Risk for Rip Currents remain in 
effect for all Atlantic Ocean Beaches through Friday as 
residual swell from Hurricane Erin continues a life threatening 
surf and rip current threat. 

The high rip current risk will likely continue through SAturday
with residual long period 4 ft easterly swells mixed with a 
couple of smaller S/SE wave components. 

Surf is peaking at this time, and expected to subside to 5 to 9
ft across western beaches and 6 to 10 ft across eastern beaches
Friday morning, and then gradually fall further to 3 to 6 ft 
for western beaches and 4 to 7 ft for eastern beaches by Friday
evening.

The threat for widespread areas of dune erosion and localized 
overwashes has ended for the evening high tide. Areas of dune
erosion and beach flooding are expected for the Friday morning 
high tide, but the potential for localized overwashes is low as 
water levels will be lower than this evening. The threat for 
dune erosion will become more scattered for the Friday evening 
high tide, with beach erosion and escarpment the primary threat 
with a west to east sweeping surf. 

The threat for widespread moderate coastal flooding has come to
and end for the southern bays of NYC/LI, with generally minor 
to localized moderate flooding threat for the north facing 
exposed shoreline areas along the south fork and Orient Point 
due to to enhanced wave action through around midnight. 
Elsewhere minor coastal flood impacts along western LI Sound 
through around 1am.

Additional rounds of minor flooding are expected with Friday 
morning and Friday evening's high tide cycles, particularly for 
the southern bays of LI and NYC, and along the oceanfront.

&&

.OKX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CT...Coastal Flood Advisory until 1 AM EDT Friday for CTZ009>011.
     Coastal Flood Advisory from 10 PM Friday to 2 AM EDT Saturday 
     for CTZ009.
NY...Coastal Flood Advisory until 1 AM EDT Friday for NYZ071-073-
     078-176-177.
     Coastal Flood Advisory from 10 PM Friday to 2 AM EDT Saturday 
     for NYZ071.
     Coastal Flood Advisory until 11 PM EDT this evening for NYZ072-
     074-075.
     Coastal Flood Advisory from 6 PM to 11 PM EDT Friday for 
     NYZ072-074-075.
     High Risk for Rip Currents through Friday evening for NYZ075-080-
     081-178-179.
     High Surf Advisory until 8 PM EDT Friday for NYZ075-080-081-
     178-179.
     Coastal Flood Warning until 3 AM EDT Friday for NYZ079-081.
     Coastal Flood Advisory from 5 AM to 2 PM EDT Friday for NYZ079-
     081.
     Coastal Flood Warning until 1 AM EDT Friday for NYZ080-178-179.
     Coastal Flood Advisory from 5 AM to 1 PM EDT Friday for NYZ080-
     178-179.
     Coastal Flood Advisory from 6 PM Friday to 2 AM EDT Saturday 
     for NYZ080-178-179.
NJ...Coastal Flood Advisory until 11 PM EDT this evening for NJZ006-
     106-108.
     Coastal Flood Advisory from 6 PM to 11 PM EDT Friday for 
     NJZ006-106-108.
MARINE...Small Craft Advisory until 2 PM EDT Friday for ANZ331-332-340-
     345.
     Small Craft Advisory until 6 AM EDT Friday for ANZ335-338.
     Gale Warning until 2 PM EDT Friday for ANZ350.
     Gale Warning until 6 AM EDT Friday for ANZ353-355.

&&

$$

SYNOPSIS...BC/DBR
NEAR TERM...BC/NV
SHORT TERM...BC
LONG TERM...DBR
AVIATION...NV
MARINE...BC/NV
HYDROLOGY...BC/DBR
TIDES/COASTAL FLOODING...NV
