626 
FXUS61 KOKX 280559
AFDOKX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service New York NY
159 AM EDT Sat Jun 28 2025

.SYNOPSIS...
High pressure will continue shifting east of the New England 
coast tonight as a warm front approaches from the south. The 
front lifts through during Saturday morning, followed by a cold 
front Saturday night. High pressure returns on Sunday. A frontal
boundary advances back north as a warm front Monday afternoon, 
getting captured by low pressure tracking east in Canada. A cold
front follows Tuesday evening with high pressure mid to late
next week.

&&

.NEAR TERM /UNTIL 6 AM THIS MORNING/...
Made some minor adjustments to the forecast. Added drizzle
wording in addition to making the mention of rain being light 
through much of the overnight. Temperatures slightly adjusted to 
convey less of a vast range and less spatial variance. Expanded 
along the coast the mention of slight chance of thunder per model 
near zero Showalter Indices towards early Saturday morning.

The high will begin moving offshore tonight as the upper ridge 
starts weakening. This is in response to an approaching shortwave 
trough traversing across southeast Canada. The stalled front to our 
south across the Middle Atlantic begins lifting north as a warm 
front tonight. Clouds will thicken and lower overnight, especially 
as the warm front draws closer to the area. Lift with the front is 
weak with little to no shortwave energy aloft nearby to add a more 
organized area of forcing. Cannot rule out some showers late tonight 
and early Saturday morning. Forecast soundings indicate weak lift, 
likely from overrunning ahead of the warm front, so some drizzle or 
light rain is also possible early Saturday morning. Thunder 
chances overnight/early Saturday appear limited with weak 
elevated instability nosing in from the southwest late. Have 
mentioned a slight chance of thunder from around the NYC metro 
on west, but cannot completely rule it out areawide. The 
increasing dew points and nearby warm front also support mention
of patchy fog. Turbulent mixing above the boundary layer should
prevent any of the fog from becoming dense.

&&

.SHORT TERM /6 AM THIS MORNING THROUGH 6 PM SUNDAY/...
Main concerns for Saturday will increasing heat indices in the 
afternoon as well as potential for an isolated severe thunderstorm 
in the late afternoon and early evening.

The warm front will continue lifting north of the area in the 
morning. A shower or two remains possible in the morning and
cannot completely rule out a rumble of thunder. Any low clouds,
drizzle and fog diminish by mid to late morning as the flow 
becomes southerly and heating takes place. Temperatures will 
warm fairly significantly compared to the last few days. 
Afternoon highs should reach the low 80s across Long Island and 
southern Connecticut due to onshore flow influence. However, the
NYC metro, NE NJ, and Lower Hudson Valley should rise into the 
middle and upper 80s. Dew points increase into the lower 70s 
yielding max heat indices in urban NE NJ in the mid to upper 90s
with around 90 away from the coast and influence of the marine 
layer.

Potential for convection looks to be late in the afternoon and
early evening. Forecast soundings indicate capping around 5 kft
into the afternoon and there may be a weak middle level 
cap/warm air to limit convective development. Heights aloft 
should fall a bit late in the day with the shortwave moving 
across New England. The main forcing will come from surface 
convergence and some lift from weak energy aloft. These features
should be enough to allow convection to develop in an 
environment with about 1000 J/kg of MLCAPE and about 25 kt of 
0-6 km unidirectional shear. The stronger flow/shear looks to 
reside northeast of the area and greater instability likely 
remains across the Middle Atlantic. CAMs have signaled potential
of a fairly progressive broken line of convection developing 
late in the day and moving into the area in the evening. As the 
line encounters the marine environment, the line should weaken 
as it encounters more stable air across Long Island and 
Connecticut towards or just after sunset. SPC has maintained a 
marginal risk for a severe thunderstorm west of Long Island and 
Connecticut. The main concern is from damaging wind gusts. 

Locally heavy downpours are possible as PWATs are increase to
around 1.80 in. However, the progressive nature of the system 
will limit duration of heavy rain and limit the overall flood 
threat. Minor urban and poor drainage flooding is possible. 

The front and shortwave push east of the area Saturday night.
High pressure builds in from the west allowing some drier air to 
move into the area. The building high pressure and lingering 
troughing just to our east sets the stage for a predominately 
westerly flow on Sunday. This should hold off sea breezes until 
potentially late in the day. Guidance has trended warmer on 
Sunday with highs now in the middle to upper 80s. Heat indices 
look to remain near the actual air temperature as dew points 
should mix out into the lower 60s due to the westerly flow.

&&

.LONG TERM /SUNDAY NIGHT THROUGH FRIDAY/...
A weakly amplified ridge with high pressure at the surface
keeps conditions mainly dry Sunday night into large portion of 
Monday. Mainly clear conditions are expected Sunday night.

Cloud cover may increase late Monday afternoon as the ridge
begins to shift offshore in response to a trough that digs into
the Great Lakes and Canada. This trough also brings surface low
pressure to our north in Canada, which captures a stalled 
frontal boundary to our south, bringing it through our area 
Monday afternoon as a warm front. 

We remain warm-sectored Monday evening into Tuesday evening
before a cold front moves through early Tuesday night. Warm 
temperatures, ample moisture, higher dewpoints, and decent 
instability should lead to not only showers during this period, 
but general thunderstorms. Global models are bringing pockets of
1500-3000 J/kg through the area during this timeframe. Severe 
weather looks unlikely until the cold front. Ahead of the FROPA,
bulk shear looks to climb to 35-45 kts which could lead to some
stronger updrafts in longer-lived thunderstorms. This may 
support some heavier downpours and instances of damaging winds 
in stronger thunderstorms that develop along and ahead of the 
cold front. 

Late Tuesday night, conditions dry as zonal flow sets in a loft
with high pressure at the surface holding Wednesday into 
Friday. 

Temperatures Monday and Tuesday range from the mid 80s for most
to lower 90s in parts of the urban NYC metro. With dew pts 
progged into the 60s and 70s. Little in the way of temperature 
relief behind the front Tuesday night, though drier air in 
subsequent W/NW flow helps to lower humidity values mid to late 
week.

&&

.AVIATION /06Z SATURDAY THROUGH WEDNESDAY/...
A warm front approaches overnight into Saturday which gives rise to 
very light showers and pockets of drizzle, along with the overall 
development of lower clouds as well as the chance of some fog. The 
warm front eventually passes north of the area Saturday, followed by 
an approaching cold front towards late in the TAF period towards 
Saturday evening / night.

Expect mainly MVFR conditions to prevail initially for the 
overnight, with IFR into Saturday morning. Localized LIFR possible 
early Saturday. Improvement back to VFR is forecast Saturday 
afternoon, with only MVFR and IFR for KGON. Improvement to VFR for 
KISP and KBDR Saturday afternoon may be brief as MVFR and IFR return 
into Saturday evening. For KGON and possibly KISP, low stratus could 
return but otherwise for all terminals there is a chance for showers 
and thunderstorms which could bring temporary MVFR to IFR conditions 
Saturday evening. Relatively higher chances of thunder at KSWF so 
tempo group for that terminal as opposed to PROB30 for the others.

Regarding winds, it will be an overall east to southeast flow around 
5 to 10 kt overnight. The winds then become more SE later Saturday, 
and eventually become more S late Saturday afternoon and evening. No 
significant changes expected in wind speeds, except within any 
thunderstorms Saturday evening which could bring a sudden shift to 
a more westerly direction and higher gusts.

 ...NY Metro (KEWR/KLGA/KJFK/KTEB) TAF Uncertainty...

Amendments remain likely to refine the timing of changing flight 
categories to IFR. Some fluctuation between categories possible.

Rain / showers late tonight into early Saturday may end up being 
just intermittent drizzle. Amendments possible to refine this 
timing. 

Amendments also likely to refine the timing and probability of 
thunderstorms for later in the TAF period.


.OUTLOOK FOR 06Z SUNDAY THROUGH WEDNESDAY... 

Late Saturday night: Any shower and thunderstorms should end towards 
or just after midnight. Some improvement to VFR likely, although 
MVFR may linger.

Sunday: Mainly VFR.

Monday: VFR during the day. A chance of showers and thunderstorms at 
night. MVFR or lower possible at night.

Tuesday: Showers and thunderstorms with MVFR or lower possible, 
especially afternoon and evening. SW wind gusts 15-20 kt day into 
early eve.

Wednesday: Mainly VFR.

Detailed information, including hourly TAF wind component forecasts,
can be found at: https:/www.weather.gov/zny/n90

&&

.MARINE...
Ocean seas have subsided below 5 ft this evening. All marine 
zone conditions are expected to remain below SCA thresholds for
the rest of tonight. Winds may increase again on Saturday, but 
should remain below 25 kt. Otherwise, conditions will remain 
below SCA levels through Sunday. 

Sub-SCA conditions are expected Sunday night through early
Tuesday. Winds and waves may approach SCA conditions Tue 
afternoon into early Tue night in response to an approaching and
passing cold front. Thereafter, sub-SCA conditions return into 
mid & late week.

&&

.HYDROLOGY...
No significant hydrologic concerns are anticipated through next
week. Locally heavy downpours will be quick moving late Saturday
into Saturday evening with only minor nuisance flooding 
expected.

&&

.TIDES/COASTAL FLOODING...
Localized minor coastal flooding remains possible for the most
vulnerable spots along the back bays of S Nassau and Queens 
during this evening's high tide cycle, as water levels come down
slightly from a new moon early in the week. No statements were
issued as no impacts are expected. 

Surf height lowers to 2 feet Saturday with onshore flow, so rip 
current risk will lower to moderate on Saturday. Sunday, winds
shift to westerly for a portion of the day, but rip risk remain
moderate under 2 ft surf height.

&&

.OKX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CT...None.
NY...None.
NJ...None.
MARINE...None.

&&

$$

SYNOPSIS...BR/DS
NEAR TERM...JM/BR/DS
SHORT TERM...DS
LONG TERM...BR
AVIATION...JE
MARINE...BR/DS
HYDROLOGY...BR/DS
TIDES/COASTAL FLOODING...
