523 
FXUS61 KOKX 012255
AFDOKX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service New York NY
555 PM EST Sat Feb 1 2025

.SYNOPSIS...
High pressure builds in tonight. A frontal system impacts the
region Sunday night. A warm front shifts north of the area 
Monday followed by a cold front Monday night. High pressure 
returns Tuesday into Wednesday with a complex frontal system 
impacting the area Wednesday night into Thursday. High pressure 
may briefly build in next Friday ahead of another frontal 
system.

&&

.NEAR TERM /UNTIL 6 AM SUNDAY MORNING/...
Forecast on track this evening. A mid 1030s will continue
building into the area tonight. Subsidence along with a dry 
airmass should yield mainly skc overnight. Some cirrus from the 
Pacific to the Midwest could start to fill in in before sunrise.
The NBM with local adjustments was used for temps, and in a 
good radiational cooling environment, particularly aft midnight 
when winds relax, this means lows in the single digits and 
teens.

&&

.SHORT TERM /6 AM SUNDAY MORNING THROUGH SUNDAY NIGHT/...
The high center moves into the Gulf of ME on Sun, resulting in light 
return flow across the region. High clouds will thicken thru the day 
as a hybrid nrn stream/Pacific weak low approaches the area. Some of 
the modeling suggests pockets of lgt pcpn by the middle of the day 
with the building sely flow and llvl frogen. Without deep lift and 
deep moisture, this pcpn, if it occurs, a mix of sleet/snow 
grains/rain possible. Amounts very light and coverage isold-sct 
attm. 

The main chcs for pcpn occur Sun ngt, particularly in the eve per 
the 12Z models. The NBM was used for pops. Deep moisture and lift so 
there will definitely be ice crystals to work with and therefore 
snow, with rain mixing in at the coasts with a warmer bl and the 
onshore sly component flow. The nrn half of the cwa is therefore 
favored for snow accums in the 1-2 inch range. If the sys tracks 
further swd, snowfall rates should be able to overcome the warmer bl 
near the coasts allowing for similar light accums there. However, 
the current solns do not suggest this.

&&

.LONG TERM /MONDAY THROUGH SATURDAY/...
The large scale pattern for next week will consist of a fast zonal 
flow over the CONUS. There will be embedded shortwaves in the flow 
with the first passing Monday night into Tuesday followed by mid to 
late week. The pattern does not appear to change heading into next 
weekend.

The period starts with a warm front lifting north of the area Monday 
morning. Any light snow accumulation across the interior Sunday 
night ends before the Monday morning commute and will be followed by 
temperatures rising well into the 40s by afternoon. Some locations 
in the NYC metro could touch or slightly exceed 50 degrees. Dry 
conditions are expected Monday with a cold front passing across the 
area Monday night. Temperatures do not significantly drop behind the 
front on Tuesday as high pressure builds across the northeast. Highs 
on Tuesday remain above normal in the lower and middle 40s. 
Seasonably cold conditions return Tuesday night through Wednesday 
ahead of the shortwave for the middle of the week.

There is good agreement among the global deterministic and ensembles 
for a complex frontal system associated with the aforementioned 
shortwave to impact the area late Wednesday into Thursday. However, 
forecast confidence is low with the timing of precip and precip 
types. The previous forecast for Wednesday of a faster probability 
of precip in the quick flow aloft seems reasonable, but did not want 
to go above chance with lingering surface ridging in place. 
Probabilities are then capped at likely Wednesday night into 
Thursday due to a large spread in the evolution of the system. The 
deterministic ECMWF and UKMET have been the most consistent with a 
warm front lifting across the area Wednesday night followed by a 
deepening surface low lifting across southeast Canada on Thursday, 
sending a cold front through the area. This would put the area in 
the warm sector of the system, limiting the duration of any wintry 
precip. The ECMWF EPS and UKMET ensemble members generally agree 
with the deterministic output, although there is spread on the 
timing and intensity of the parent low. The GFS deterministic and 
many of its ensemble members indicate a much weaker parent low and 
potential of a secondary low developing near or south of Long 
Island. This could keep the region colder with wintry precip lasting 
longer into Thursday. The CMC is in between these scenarios with the 
parent low moving over the northeast Wednesday night into Thursday 
allowing for enough warm air aloft to change any wintry mix 
Wednesday night to mainly rain on Thursday. 

Have continued with the theme from the previous forecast for now 
with potential of some light snow Wednesday afternoon and then a 
transition to a wintry mix Wednesday night to mainly plain rain on 
Thursday. This agrees most with the recent model consensus. In this 
scenario, the interior would take the longest to become plain rain 
compared to the coast which could occur as early as overnight 
Wednesday. However, it is still too early for any specifics with 
impacts and amounts. The system should pull away from the area 
Thursday night with high pressure briefly returning to end the week. 
The high quickly gives way to the potential of another frontal 
system next weekend.

&&

.AVIATION /23Z SUNDAY THROUGH THURSDAY/...
High pressure builds from the northwest and remains in control 
through Sunday morning. Low pressure approaches the area Sunday 
into Sunday night.

VFR through at least Sunday morning. NNW winds have lowered and are 
now 10-15 kt with gusts 20-25 kt. Gusts have also become more 
occasional. Winds then veer NE 5-10 kt after midnight. By Sunday 
morning, winds become E then SE, remaining at 5-10kt.

Uncertainty in when MVFR cigs move in on Sunday and could be as 
early as 18z. Any precipitation holds off until after the TAF 
period, except at KSWF where a PROB30 was introduced at 22z Sunday.

 ...NY Metro (KEWR/KLGA/KJFK/KTEB) TAF Uncertainty...

Wind gusts have become more occasional and will likely continue to 
trend in that direction. Have left in the TAF for now, but 
amendments may be needed to remove gusts early.

Uncertainty in timing of MVFR cigs on Sunday. Current thinking is 
after 20z, but could be as early as 18z.


.OUTLOOK FOR 18Z SUNDAY THROUGH THURSDAY... 

Sunday: Chance of MVFR cigs.

Sunday night: Chance of MVFR or lower cond at night in rain and/or 
snow.

Monday: Mainly VFR.

Tuesday: VFR. NW winds G20kt late morning/afternoon. 

Wednesday: Chance of light snow with MVFR or lower cond mainly in 
the afternoon. 

Wednesday night and Thursday: MVFR or lower cond likely. Precip type 
snow initially, changing to a wintry mix in the evening, then to 
rain at the NYC metro/Long Island terminals late through Thursday. 

Detailed information, including hourly TAF wind component forecasts, 
can be found at: https:/www.weather.gov/zny/n90

&&

.MARINE...
Cancelled the SCA on the non ocean waters as winds have largely
fallen below SCA levels. Winds and waves will continue to 
subside tonight as high pressure builds over the waters. Winds 
and seas are then expected to remain blw sca lvls Sun.

Conditions will largely remain below SCA levels on the waters Monday 
through Wednesday with just marginal SCA gusts possible on the ocean 
Monday night into Wednesday. The next chance for SCA conditions 
appears to be Thursday with a complex frontal system impacting the 
waters.

&&

.HYDROLOGY...
There are no hydrologic concerns thru next week.

&&

.OKX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CT...None.
NY...None.
NJ...None.
MARINE...Small Craft Advisory until 6 AM EST Sunday for ANZ350-353.
     Small Craft Advisory until 1 AM EST Sunday for ANZ355.

&&

$$

SYNOPSIS...JMC/DS
NEAR TERM...JMC/DS
SHORT TERM...JMC
LONG TERM...DS
AVIATION...JT
MARINE...JMC/DS
HYDROLOGY...JMC/DS
