693 
FXUS61 KOKX 190308
AFDOKX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service New York NY
1108 PM EDT Wed Jun 18 2025

.SYNOPSIS...
A warm front struggles north of the region through this 
evening. A cold front approaches late Thursday and moves across 
the region Thursday night. High pressure builds Friday and into 
the weekend. Bermuda high pressure will then settle just south 
of the region for the first half of next week.

&&

.NEAR TERM /UNTIL 6 AM THURSDAY MORNING/...
A warm front struggles north of the region through this 
evening. Stratus/dense fog bank across the ocean likely works 
back along immediate southern and eastern coastal areas this 
evening, which may bring areas of dense fog to coastal areas.

Marginal to borderline moderate surface instability for areas 
west of the Hudson River, away from marine influence. Combined 
with weak upper energy approaching from the SW this eve and 
marginal deep layer shear, isolated to widely scattered 
thunderstorms expected to slide east into the LoHud and NE NJ 
through early this evening. 

The severe thunderstorm threat is very marginal (less than 5% 
prob for LoHud and NE NJ). Any showers and thunderstorms that 
develop have the potential of producing heavy rainfall, as the 
storm will be relatively slow moving (east at 20-25 mph) with
near record PWATS of 2 1/2". Isolated to widely scattered storm
coverage should limit flash flood threat to very marginal (less
than 5% prob for NYC and moreso points NW, W, SW).

Thunderstorm potential and intensity decreases working eastward
this eve through NYC/SW CT into LI/E CT with greater maritime 
influence. 

Weak shortwave surface/aloft slides east this evening bringing 
shower/thunderstorm threat to an end. Region will become warm 
sectored under a warm and muggy airmass. Light S/SW flow of 
high Td airmass over low 60 degrees waters point towards 
continuation of maritime stratus/fog across southern and eastern
coastal areas. Patchy fog threat elsewhere.

&&

.SHORT TERM /6 AM THURSDAY MORNING THROUGH THURSDAY NIGHT/...
* Hot and Humid on Thursday with late afternoon/evening
  scattered severe thunderstorm threat *

Fairly deep Great Lakes/Ohio valley shortwave trough approaches
from the west on Thursday aft/eve, with resultant developing 
low pressure tracking ne along the St Lawrence River Valley into
southern Quebec on Thursday, and associated pre-frontal trough 
approaching late Thu afternoon/evening. 

Coastal morning stratus/fog should quickly dissipate Thursday 
morning with strengthening deep SW flow. Deep mixing to at least
850mb (850mb T around 19C) will lend to widespread temps in the
lower 90s areas away from south and east coast. Potentially 
approaching 95F for urban NE NJ, mid to upper 80s for south and 
east coasts. Tds will also be on the increase. 75 F Tds noted 
in mid-Atlantic/south Jersey this afternoon pooling up against 
the warm front. Sounding indicated some drying aloft Thursday, 
but lower 70s Tds seen in NBM, HRRR and MOS guidance are quite 
reasonable, with worst case of 75F Tds. One day of mid to upper 
90 heat indices likely for NYC/NJ metro, LoHud, and interior Sw
CT, with heat indices around 90 F for south and east coastal 
areas. Southwesterly wind gusts increase to 25 to 30 mph in the 
afternoon.

Shortwave approach in late afternoon, encountering a moderately 
unstable and deeply sheared environment, should allow for 
scattered multi-cell and supercell development along/ahead of 
the pre-frontal trough across central NY/PA in the early 
afternoon. This activity should work east towards the region in 
the late afternoon/evening, with organization into a bowing line
segment or two possible. Scattered severe storms are possible 
(SPC-WFO coordinated slight risk for the area) with damaging 
wind gusts the primary threat (15% probability of occurrence w/i
25 miles of a point), particularly with any bowing segment 
development. There is a marginal risk of large hail (5% 
probability of occurrence w/i 25 miles of a point) with any 
supercell/multi cluster activity, and an isolated tornado threat
(2% probability of occurrence w/i 25 miles of a point) along 
bowing segments or supercells. Farther east across LI/CT, 
expectation is that storms should gradually weaken in intensity 
after 8pm as storms encounter a stabilizing environment. 
  
With the passage of the cold front Thursday night the showers and 
thunderstorms will end. High pressure then builds toward the region 
for Friday, with slightly cooler temperatures.

&&

.LONG TERM /FRIDAY THROUGH WEDNESDAY/...
* PATTERN CHANGE TO HOT AND HUMID CONDITIONS BY EARLY NEXT WEEK *

Expect a significant long wave pattern change for the period. A
shortwave feature exits Northern New England and SE Canada 
early on Friday. In its wake gradual height rises are expected 
to take place for the most part beginning Friday and into the 
weekend. Much of the NWP global guidance is suggestive of a 
shortwave feature which attempts to ride and break through the 
northern portion of the building ridge. This will be a transient
feature as questions remain as to how this feature will track 
and whether its effects will be mainly north of the CWA towards 
the middle of the upcoming weekend. For now have covered this 
feature with slight chance to low end chance PoPs. In any event,
the turn to a hot and humid regime looks likely into early next
week as higher heights and thicknesses build across the region.
The warm up is expected to begin to build by late Sunday, 
especially for western and southwestern most areas.

Hot and humid conditions thus are likely to prevail Monday 
through Wednesday with primarily dry weather as any shower / 
t-storm activity is likely to remain west and northwest of the 
region. At this time it appears that a good portion of the 
region will experience the first heat wave of the season, with 
less certainty further east. Regardless, temperatures will 
average well above normal into next week. Towards the tail end 
of the period (say mid to late week) if the ridge break downs 
enough, the chance of diurnally driven convection would increase
and could introduce some chance of late day and early evening 
showers and t-storms.

&&

.AVIATION /03Z THURSDAY THROUGH MONDAY/...
One remaining shower in Orange county will lead to impacts for
the next hour or so to SWF. Otherwise, rain has been removed
from the TAFs.

Categories will worsen under weak flow after 4Z, especially for
GON, ISP, BDR, and HPN, where IFR to LIFR is likely through the
night in low ceilings and fog. NYC terminals and SWF may only 
drop to MVFR to high end IFR tonight. 

VFR forecast to return by late Thursday morning and into 
Thursday afternoon. MVFR is possible again in SHRA and TSRA 
tomorrow late afternoon and evening. 

Winds will be generally southerly at or less than 10 kt through
much of the TAF period, until tomorrow afternoon. Winds become 
more SW 10-15 kt for Thursday afternoon. Some terminals will 
have more variable wind direction during times when wind speeds 
are at or less than 5 kts.

Winds increase ahead of SHRA and TSRA tomorrow afternoon S/SW 
10-15 kt with gusts up to 22 kt. 

 ...NY Metro (KEWR/KLGA/KJFK/KTEB) TAF Uncertainty...

Amendments likely. Categories may vary between MVFR and LIFR at
times tonight into Thursday morning.

Shower and thunderstorm timing could vary by 1-2 hours compared
to TAF tomorrow.

.OUTLOOK FOR 00Z FRIDAY THROUGH MONDAY... 

Friday through Monday: Mainly VFR. 

Detailed information, including hourly TAF wind component
forecasts, can be found at: https:/www.weather.gov/zny/n90

&&

.MARINE...
A Dense Fog Advisory continues for ocean waters east of Fire Island, 
southern and eastern bays of LI, and E LI Sound with stratus/dense 
fog deck over lower 60 F waters (visibilities less than 1 NM). This 
deck may back west for a bit late this afternoon and evening.

Winds and seas remain below advisory levels today into Thursday 
morning, then with an increasing southwest flow ahead of a cold 
front Thursday occasional gusts to near 25 kt are likely on the 
ocean waters and southern bays. As a result ocean seas will likely 
build to around 5 feet late Thu into Fri AM. Behind the cold front, 
NW gusts are expected to run below 25 kt. 

Winds and waves are expected to fall below Small Craft Advisory
criteria Friday afternoon and continue through early next week.
Ocean seas should settle in around 2 ft, occasionally up to 3 
ft during the weekend and into early next week.

&&

.HYDROLOGY...
One quarter to three quarters of an inch rain, with locally higher 
amounts, is possible across the lower Hudson Valley, northeastern 
New Jersey, and New York City into this evening. The probability for 
flash flooding is marginal (around 5% probability), with a higher 
probability across central NJ. 

Once again a marginal risk of flash flooding (around 5% probability) 
on Thursday, with scattered locally heavy downpours and 
thunderstorms late Thursday afternoon into the evening. The quicker 
storm motion as compared to today, will limit the flash flood threat 
to any localized areas of training. 

There are no hydrologic concerns Friday through early next 
week.

&&

.TIDES/COASTAL FLOODING...
There will be a moderate rip current risk during the morning on 
Thursday, before increasing to a high risk later in the day for the 
western ocean beaches. A moderate risk is expected for the Suffolk 
ocean beaches for Thursday. On Friday the high risk should continue, 
at least through the morning for the western ocean beaches. The high 
risk on Friday will likely continue for the eastern ocean beaches 
through a good portion of the day on a lingering 5 ft near buoy wave 
height on a south to southeast 7 second wave period.

&&

.OKX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CT...Air Quality Alert from 11 AM to 11 PM EDT Thursday for 
     CTZ005>007-009>011.
NY...High Risk for Rip Currents from Thursday afternoon through Thursday 
     evening for NYZ075-178-179.
NJ...None.
MARINE...Dense Fog Advisory until 8 AM EDT Thursday for ANZ331-332-335-
     340-345-350-353.

&&

$$

SYNOPSIS...JE/NV
NEAR TERM...NV
SHORT TERM...NV
LONG TERM...JE
AVIATION...BR
MARINE...JE/NV
HYDROLOGY...JE/NV
TIDES/COASTAL FLOODING...
