303 
FXUS61 KOKX 140643
AFDOKX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service New York NY
243 AM EDT Thu Aug 14 2025

.SYNOPSIS...
A cold front moves into the region today from the northwest. The 
front will slowly exit the area late this afternoon into this 
evening. The front then moves far offshore late tonight through 
Friday. High pressure from Southeast Canada moves in Friday into 
Saturday. Another cold front approaches Sunday, moving through 
late in the day into Sunday night. The front may stall nearby, 
and waves of low pressure move along the boundary into early 
next week. 

&&

.NEAR TERM /THROUGH TONIGHT/...
An upper level trough moves across well north of the local region 
today. While height falls are not evident across the local
region, actually heights slightly rise, some models are 
indicating some sort of positive vorticity advection in smaller 
less organized areas traversing the local area.

At the surface, a cold front moves into the region but appears to 
slightly weaken as it does so. Models convey a slight increase in 
the low pressure along it.

The CAMs exhibit vastly different solutions and a lack of coherency 
in their reflectivity fields. The uncertainty therefore is greater 
and POPs stay below 50 percent through the day today for showers
and thunderstorms. They do increase late this morning through 
the afternoon into chance levels and remain at chance levels 
early this evening before significantly decreasing.

The forcing and bulk shear of 0-6 km AGL only 20 kt will be limiting 
to the strength of thunderstorms. However, with some decrease 
in steering flow and weakening of the cold front, showers and 
thunderstorm that do form will be slower moving. This will 
become more of a hydrology issue but lack of organization 
should preclude sufficient areal expansion and aggregate 
development characteristic of multicellular convection. Some 
CAMs just depict isolated convection while others show more 
scattered coverage convection.

High temperatures today were from the NBM which have recently 
performed better than MOS in being the slightly higher solution 
compared to MOS. SW flow will continue and some extra sun in between 
showers and thunderstorms will allow for more potential in 
temperatures being higher than forecast. Dewpoints from NBM were 
lowered with more MOS favored for this parameter. Max temperatures 
today are mainly from the mid 80s to around 90 and with dewpoints in 
the upper 60s to near 70 for much of the area, resulting max heat 
indices will just be a few degrees higher than the actual 
temperature (i.e. low 90s). This is below heat advisory
criteria.

&&

.SHORT TERM /FRIDAY THROUGH SATURDAY NIGHT/...
For tonight, the cold front will eventually move south of the entire 
region and push south of Long Island overnight into early morning 
hours of Friday. Flow becomes more northerly but with a weakening 
pressure gradient, the wind speeds remain quite light. As a result, 
some areas could get some fog with overnight cooling into early 
Friday morning. This will be more favored for those locations
that received earlier rainfall.

For the rest of the short term and going through the first half of 
the upcoming weekend, high pressure will be in more control of the 
local weather. High pressure builds south into the area from SE
Canada and then remains centered near the Canadian Maritimes
through Saturday. This allow for a more easterly flow to develop
and eventually modify the local airmass.

Mainly dry conditions persist and temperatures exhibit a 
cooling trend due to greater easterly component of low level 
flow. At night, both Friday night and Saturday night, some 
outlying areas across Lower Hudson Valley, Southern Connecticut 
and interior Northeast New Jersey could develop some fog but 
coverage is only expected to be patchy.

&&

.LONG TERM /SUNDAY THROUGH WEDNESDAY/...
The beginning of the long term period will be quiet with 
temperatures near seasonal normals with high pressure over the 
region. High pressure will be offshore Sunday as a cold front 
approaches, and moves through late day into Sunday night. With a 
return flow temperatures Sunday will be in the lower 90s inland and 
upper 80s along the coast. And the combination of dew points in the 
upper 60s to lower 70s will produce heat indices in the mid 90s. 
Sunday will be the only day of heat and humidity as temperatures 
return to near or below seasonal levels behind the cold front Monday 
into Wednesday. And drier air will be moving in as high pressure 
builds to the north. The cold front is expected to stall somewhere 
south of the region late Sunday night, and weak waves of low 
pressure move along the boundary Monday through Wednesday. With this 
possibility there are at least slight chances of precipitation, 
although there will be dry periods at times as well. The NBM was 
followed throughout the extended period.

&&

.AVIATION /07Z THURSDAY THROUGH MONDAY/...
A cold front slowly approaches tonight, moving through Thursday. 

The last of the rain will exit ern portions of the area
overnight. Generally VFR outside of the rain, although KGON is 
expected to drop to IFR late. There is a chance it gets into ISP
as well.

Sct shwrs and tstms possible again on Thu, mainly in the aftn
invof the front. Prob30s have been maintained in the fcst. 

Winds lighten tonight, going variable in direction at most 
terminals, which may persist through much of Thursday morning or
become northerly. Increasing southerly flow then follows in the
afternoon, followed by light N/VRB flow Thu ngt.

 ...NY Metro (KEWR/KLGA/KJFK/KTEB) TAF Uncertainty...

Winds may be close to 200 true thru 6Z.

.OUTLOOK FOR 00Z FRIDAY THROUGH MONDAY... 

Thursday night-Sunday: VFR. 

Monday: Morning -shra and MVFR possible, otherwise mainly VFR.

Detailed information, including hourly TAF wind component forecasts, 
can be found at: https:/www.weather.gov/zny/n90

&&

.MARINE...
A weak pressure gradient remains across the local waters through
the first half of the weekend, with sub-SCA conditions expected
to continue.

Sub SCA conditions are likely Sunday and Monday, though swell 
on the ocean waters may begin to increase Monday from distant 
tropical cyclone Erin. Follow the National Hurricane Center 
(www.hurricanes.gov) for the latest on Erin.

&&

.HYDROLOGY...
There is a marginal risk for flash flooding with thunderstorms 
that develop this afternoon into early evening. While coverage 
of thunderstorms appears to get to scattered at most, the high 
PW values of near 2 inches and enhanced convergence along the 
front will allow for a greater potential of torrential 
downpours.

Any flooding should be quite localized and mostly minor
nuisance, confined to low-lying, poor drainage and urban areas.

Basin averaged amounts with the front stay under a half inch.
Localized higher amounts will be possible.

Otherwise, there are no significant hydrological concerns
thereafter through next Thursday.

&&

.TIDES/COASTAL FLOODING...
For Thursday, a moderate risk for the development of rip 
currents is forecast at the New York City ocean beaches, with a 
low risk at the Nassau and Suffolk counties beaches.

For Friday there is a low risk for the development of rip
currents at all the ocean beaches.

&&

.OKX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CT...None.
NY...None.
NJ...None.
MARINE...None.

&&

$$

SYNOPSIS...JM/DBR
NEAR TERM...JM
SHORT TERM...JM
LONG TERM...DBR
AVIATION...DBR
MARINE...JM/DBR
HYDROLOGY...JM/DBR
TIDES/COASTAL FLOODING...
