572 
FXUS61 KOKX 151129
AFDOKX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service New York NY
729 AM EDT Tue Jul 15 2025

.SYNOPSIS...
A weak front sags south of the area this morning, but remains 
nearby through Wednesday as a Bermuda high remains anchored well
offshore. The boundary will lift north Wednesday Night, with a
trough moving through Thursday and then a cold front moves 
through Thursday Night into Friday. This front remains just 
south of the area through the weekend while high pressure 
attempts to build. Another cold front moves through late Sunday 
night into early Monday morning.

&&

.NEAR TERM /THROUGH TONIGHT/...
Shortwave trough axis slowly slides east this morning, with weak 
surface trough sagging south as well. 

Lingering shower activity, slight chance of thunder, across 
NYC/NJ metro, LI and S CT early this morning expected to push se
of the region by mid to late morning. With shortwave upper 
ridging building in, and mid-level drying, only an isolated 
shra/tsra threat in the aft/eve along seabreeze boundary and 
higher terrain. 

Seasonable temps (mid to upper 80s) and humid conditions (lower 70 
Tds) continue today into tonight. Tds could end up being a bit lower 
than forecast across interior based on mid-level drying and weak 
offshore flow. This yields heat indices in the lower 90s to 
around 95F across much of the region today. After collab with 
neighboring offices have held off on heat advisory for today 
with only marginal coverage of 95 HI for NYC and pts N&W, where 
Tds could end up slightly lower than NBM deterministic. 

Patchy stratus/fog development possible tonight/Wed Am in the moist 
and weak flow environment.

&&

.SHORT TERM /WEDNESDAY THROUGH THURSDAY NIGHT/...
Key Points: 

* Moderate to high potential of 95F to low 100F heat indices (Heat 
  Advisory) Wed thru Fri. 

* Low to moderate potential for 105F heat indices (Extreme Heat 
  Watch/Warning) on Thu.

Shortwave ridging surface/aloft slides east during the day on 
Wednesday, with a southern plains shortwave approaching the 
region Wed eve and crossing the area Wed Night. 

At the surface weak high pressure on Wed will give way to an 
approaching warm front Wed eve, pushing north of the region Wed
Night into Thu AM. A warm advective SW flow establishes around 
Bermuda high with likelihood for start of a mid to late week 
heat wave.

Between morning stratus and aft/eve convection a period of 
partial clearing likely to lift widespread daytime temps in the
upper 80s to lower 90s, and Tds in the mid 70s. Widespread heat
indices in the upper 90s to lower 100s F likely. Potential for 
105F heat indices appears low and sparse.

Scattered late day into overnight convection likely with passage of 
southern shortwave and warm front. Isolated severe threat and 
localized flash flood threat late Wed aft/eve for NYC and points
west in a moderately unstable and moist airmass. Convective 
intensity should diminish overnight as it translates east, but 
locally strong tsra and minor flood threat would still exist 
with moistening profiles and marginal elevated instability. 

Tri-State region is likely under an active zonal upper flow on 
Thursday and in the midst of hot and very humid airmass on 
Thursday on the periphery of Bermuda ridging and ahead of 
approaching trough axis. With active flow aloft, convective 
debris and timing/placement of pre-frontal trough axis and 
convective initiation will be forecast challenges for amount of 
sunshine. With that said, 850mb temps will be approaching 19c, 
and with even limited sunshine supporting mixing to that level,
temps in the upper 80s and lower 90s are likely, with Tds 
potentially pooling into the mid to upper 70s. This would yield 
widespread heat indices of 100 to around 105F, presenting a low 
to moderate potential for extreme heat watch/warning level. 
Potential for aft/eve convection once again, with isolated 
severe threat and localized flash flood threat Thu aft/eve for
much of the area in a moderately unstable and moist airmass.


Have stuck close to NBM deterministic T and Tds for Wed and Thu
based on convection and cloud cover timing challenges. NBM 
deterministic also lies within a fairly tight 25 to 25th NBM 
ensemble range for much of the area, outside of LI.

&&

.LONG TERM /FRIDAY THROUGH MONDAY/...
***Key Points***

* Increasing likelihood for heat indices to exceed 95F Friday across 
  much of the region.

* Unsettled pattern with chances for afternoon showers and 
  thunderstorms continue for Friday. Saturday looks mainly dry, with 
  better chances for showers and thunderstorms Sunday.

A slow moving cold front moves through on Friday, continuing 
chances for showers and thunderstorms. The front remains south 
of the area Saturday and much of Sunday before another front 
approaches Sunday and moves through late Sunday night into early
Monday morning. With weak high pressure building in, much of 
the area will be dry for Saturday, though an isolated shower or 
thunderstorm cannot be ruled out mainly N and W of NYC. Another 
cold front approaches for Sunday, giving the area better chances
for showers and thunderstorms late Sunday through the beginning
of next week with the front remaining nearby.

While nothing remarkable for mid July, temperatures 
Fri likely top the upper 80s to lower 90s for most, and with dew 
points forecast at least into the upper 60s and lower 70s, heat 
indices should achieve mid to upper 90s.

One caveat may be the unsettled pattern, with showers and 
thunderstorms possible each afternoon through late week with nearby 
frontal boundaries, though the overall severe risk appears low. 
However, deep layer moisture should keep PWATs near or above 2 
inches, and with it, the potential for higher rainfall rates with 
any convective activity.

&&

.AVIATION /12Z TUESDAY THROUGH SATURDAY/...
A weak cold front remains over the region through tonight.

MVFR to VFR conditions are expected to improve to VFR for most 
terminals this morning. Metro terminals are expected to remain
VFR through the forecast period, though there is a low chance of
MVFR conditions moving in late tonight, with a low to medium
chance for KJFK. Outlying terminals have a good chance of seeing
MVFR to IFR conditions tonight, with a low chance of LIFR
possible. 

Light and variable winds this morning become S-SSW 10 kt or
less.



 ...NY Metro (KEWR/KLGA/KJFK/KTEB) TAF Uncertainty...

Amendments expected with overall low confidence in return to VFR.
Low to medium chance for MVFR conditions tonight for KJFK and
low chance for KLGA, KEWR, and KTEB.

.OUTLOOK FOR 12Z WEDNESDAY THROUGH SATURDAY... 

Wednesday-Friday: MVFR or lower in any afternoon/evening 
showers/thunderstorms.

Saturday: Mainly VFR. 

Detailed information, including hourly TAF wind component
forecasts, can be found at: https:/www.weather.gov/zny/n90

&&

.MARINE...
Sub-SCA conditions through Thursday in a weak pressure regime,
although ocean seas will likely build to 3 to 4 ft late Wed into
Thu with persistent 15 to 20 kt S/SW flow, possibly around 5 ft
by Thu Night. Marginal SCA gusts possible Wed late aft/eve and 
more likely Thu aft/eve with coastal jet formation. 

A return to sub-SCA for Friday likely with offshore flow and
subsiding S swell in wake of cold frontal passage. Sub SCA conds
continue into the weekend with weak pressure gradient.

Otherwise, afternoon/evening showers/tstms through the period 
could produce locally higher winds/seas at times.

&&

.HYDROLOGY...
Water levels expected to continue to recede below minor flood
levels across flashy NE NJ river basin this morning.

Localized flash flood potential from scattered aft/eve 
convection Wed thru Fri.

&&

.TIDES/COASTAL FLOODING...
The rip current risk is low today, with a mix of 1 ft SE swell
with 2 ft s wind waves. 

After a low risk rip current risk to start on Wednesday likely 
increases to moderate in the aft/eve with strengthening S flow 
and building 2 to 3 ft S wind waves.

&&

.OKX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CT...None.
NY...None.
NJ...None.
MARINE...None.

&&

$$

SYNOPSIS...JP/NV
NEAR TERM...NV
SHORT TERM...NV
LONG TERM...JP
AVIATION...JP
MARINE...JP/NV
HYDROLOGY...JP/NV
TIDES/COASTAL FLOODING...
