067 
FXUS61 KOKX 151506
AFDOKX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service New York NY
1006 AM EST Sat Feb 15 2025

.SYNOPSIS...
Deepening low pressure will move out of the Mid Mississippi Valley
today, passing to the northwest on Sunday and then to the north
Sunday night. A strong cold front will pass through behind the
low late Sunday afternoon into the early evening. Strong high 
pressure drives into the middle of the country Tuesday into Wednesday
and gradually noses in. Low pressure then emerges out of the Gulf
of America and Southeastern US. This low strengthens as it 
attempts to lift north along and just off the Mid Atlantic coast
Thursday. The low pulls away Friday with high pressure building
into next weekend.

&&

.NEAR TERM /THROUGH TONIGHT/...
A vigorous southern branch low will move out of the Mid
Mississippi Valley today, eventually phasing with northern 
branch shortwave energy dropping across the Midwest tonight. 
This will result in a rapidly deepening surface low that 
approaches the eastern Great Lakes Sunday morning, sending a 
warm front towards the area. At the same time, cold high 
pressure over the area this morning weakens and dissipates east 
of the area tonight. The combination of strong thermal forcing 
moving into the area this afternoon and into tonight will allow 
for overrunning precipitation to break out first as snow, then 
transitioning to plain rain from south to north through the 
overnight. However, while plenty of warm air moves in aloft, it
will take a bit longer for the low-level cold air across the 
Lower Hudson Valley and interior souther CT to get scoured out. 
There are some small timing differences with both the elevated 
warm layer aloft and surface subfreezing air, but generally no 
more than 1-2 hours. However, this could impact snow and ice 
amounts up or down depending on the arrival of the warm air. 
Typically this setup would favor the earlier scenario with a 
low track to the west and weak high pressure. 

Snowfall totals have been nudged up a bit across NYC and LI, but
still only looking at 1-2 inches before a changeover to rain this
evening. To the north and west where winter weather advisories 
remain in effect, expect anywhere from 2 to 4 inches with a glaze
to two tenths of an inch of ice. The upper end of these ranges 
will be closer to I-84 and some of the higher terrain areas 
well inland.

After lows this morning generally in the 20s, temperatures will
be slow to rise due to increasing cloud cover and eventual
evaporative cooling from precipitation falling into a drier 
airmass. Low-level winds will become onshore today form the SE 
at less than 10 mph, another warming ingredient. Highs will get 
into the lower and mid 30s this evening and will continue to
gradually warm up through the overnight. By daybreak, areas 
well inland will be in the lower to mid 30s, with LI and the NYC
around 40.

&&

.SHORT TERM /SUNDAY THROUGH SUNDAY NIGHT/...
The forecast remains on track for this morning update. Only
minor adjustments were made to temps/dewpoints to better reflect
current conditions. 

Low pressure is forecast to be west of the area Sunday morning 
with the associated warm front near or just south of LI. The 
first shot of warm advection precipitation will lift to the 
north and east with a secondary surge of warm advection as a 
southerly LLJ approaches from the south, strongest to the south 
and east of LI, with the potential for 75 to 85 kt just a few 
thousand feet. Airmass will be strongly inverted and any mixing 
of higher winds from aloft will likely not to happen until late 
in the afternoon as the cold front approaches from the west and 
the inversion erodes. With the warm front still in close 
proximity, strong thermal forcing both in the warm sector and to
the north should allow for more a convective type of rainfall 
with showers and possible thunderstorms. Confidence is low so 
for the time being have left the mention of thunderstorms out. 
Rainfall during this time will be moderate to occasionally heavy
with the best thermal forcing across eastern LI and SE CT. By 
the time the cold front passes late afternoon/early evening, 
much of the area is forecast to have received 1.5 to 2 inches of
liquid equivalent, with the highest amounts across LI and CT. 
There will likely be plenty of ponding of water on areas 
roadways due to the rainfall and snow melt. However, any 
flooding should be limited to the minor nuisance variety with 6h
FFG values generally over 2 inches. However, streams and small 
rivers in NJ could pose a minor flood threat.

A high wind watch has also been issued for the entire area
Sunday night into Monday. Just ahead and behind the cold front,
there is the potential for wind gusts of 40-50kt, especially 
with the pressure rises immediately behind the cold front. Winds
at the top of mixed layer will be around 50 kt, and on average 
about 40 kt through the layer. Thus, high winds are possible 
through the overnight, aided by strong cold advection and 
cyclonic flow. Temperatures will fall back below freezing and 
into the 20s by daybreak Monday.

&&

.LONG TERM /MONDAY THROUGH FRIDAY/...
* Windy with the potential for strong winds on Monday.

* The potential remains and has increased some for a significant / 
  major winter storm in the Wed night - Thursday night time frame.

Low pressure pulls north into Eastern Canada and the Canadian 
maritimes Monday into Monday night. A strong W wind will be the main 
story to begin the week. The pressure gradient will begin to 
decrease and the winds gradually subside Monday night into Tuesday 
morning. Temperatures will be running about 7 to 10 degrees below 
normal for Mid Feb for Monday into Monday night. Wind chills by 
Tuesday morning will be down into the single digits to around zero 
across the northern most sections. The heart of the cP air mass 
arrives for Tuesday into Tuesday night. The winds will be lighter so 
it may not feel quite as cold, but temperatures will continue to run 
well below average.

Then all attention turns to the deep south as low pressure emerges 
out of the Gulf and tracks across No. Florida and along the SE coast 
Wednesday into Wednesday night. Much of the global guidance is 
suggestive of a Classic Miller A type storm. Ensemble sensitivity / 
cluster analysis does hint at some differences in how deep and south 
the northern branch upper level low gets, along with some difference 
in phase / speed, and thus timing differences. What is notable is 
that most of the 12z 2/14 QPF ensemble clusters get the half inch 
QPF line into the coastal plain. What is different from past 
scenarios this winter season is that the suppressed Pacific or 
southern branch energy will not get locked up in any type of SW US 
upper level low as any suppressed energy in the Pacific / Southern 
branch will come out and be intact as it gets east. Questions remain 
as to when and exactly how the northern closed low interacts with 
the suppressed Pacific branch energy. The 0Z 2/15 ECMWF and UKMET 
operational runs bring a major snow event to the I95 corridor and 
our area. The CMC also brings a significant winter storm to the area 
and is furthest west which is suggestive at some mixing along the 
coast. The GFS operational run struggles to bring the energy 
together, which can be a bias of the model. However, the EC-AIFS (AI 
model) and the ICON is doing something similar, but the ICON is less 
pronounced with the eastward position and track. However, most of 
the eastward guidance is suggestive of strong PVA along the coastal 
plain suggesting that the sfc features could be placed too much to 
the east, especially considering the 500 mb features. The various 
ensemble systems overall (EPS, GEPS, and to a lesser extent the 
GEFS) are suggestive of a significant east coast storm. There 
remains a big discrepancy in the amount of deepening and position of 
the sfc low tracks with respect to the various ECMWF 
/ GFS ensemble members from the 0z 2/15 run. One thing to note is 
that there is no discernible downstream blocking, and thus the storm 
system is not expected to stall and should remain fairly 
progressive. In any event, this will be a hot topic over the 
upcoming days.

Behind the system expect strong winds and cold / dry advection as it 
pulls away late Thu night into Friday. This should lead to dry and 
cold conditions to close out the week.

&&

.AVIATION /15Z SATURDAY THROUGH WEDNESDAY/...
High pressure moves offshore as low pressure approaches later today 
and passes through tonight into early Sunday.

VFR through this morning. Cigs and vsbys lower this afternoon into 
this evening as snow develops. MVFR prevails towards 20z for the 
city terminals, with vsby as low as 3/4SM possible in pockets of 
steadier snow. Snow transitions to rain along the coast in the 
evening and inland overnight with KSWF and KHPN having a transition 
to freezing rain. A wintry mix remains at KSWF for the entire 
overnight Sat into early Sun AM. Overall cigs and vsbys will remain 
low with IFR and pockets of LIFR late this evening and into Sunday 
morning.

Winds have become light easterly and will gradually become 
light southeast as high pressure continues to move east. E to SE
winds will prevail with some increase in speed this evening 
into tonight to around 10 kt at most terminals, with a few 
terminals getting a bit above 10 kt towards late evening.

Snow accumulations of 1 to 2 inches possible along the coast
with 2 to 4 inches inland.


 ...NY Metro (KEWR/KLGA/KJFK/KTEB) TAF Uncertainty...

Amendments possible with timing uncertainty for flight category 
changes as snow moves in this afternoon into the evening. 

.OUTLOOK FOR 12Z SUNDAY THROUGH WEDNESDAY... 
 
Sunday: IFR or lower with rain. A chance of freezing rain at KSWF 
early in the morning. LLWS expected, for the city and eastern 
terminals. S winds with gusts increasing in the afternoon, 
potentially 25-40 kt late in the day. Gusts could peak to 45 to 50kt 
in the evening with W winds.

Monday: VFR with W winds G35-40kt.

Tuesday: VFR with W winds G25 kt. 

Wednesday: VFR daytime. Chance of snow towards evening and at night 
with possible IFR.

Detailed information, including hourly TAF wind component forecasts, 
can be found at: https:/www.weather.gov/zny/n90

&&

.MARINE...
High pressure over the waters weakens and then dissipates to 
the east through tonight. A storm system will impact the area 
with a strengthening southerly flow on Sunday, followed by 
strong west winds Sunday night. A gales watch has been posted 
for all waters Sunday afternoon through the first half of Monday
night. There could even be occasional gusts up to storm force. 
Seas will build to 5 to 8 ft on LI Sound and 10 to 18 ft on the 
ocean waters overnight Sunday.

Gale conditions across all waters on Monday with occasional storm 
force gusts in the wake of a storm moving through the Canadian 
maritimes. High ocean seas of 7 to 14 ft are expected through the 
day Monday. Seas and winds then gradually subside Monday night with 
gale conditions likely for a good portion of the night. Conditions 
then decrease to small craft on Tuesday with ocean seas down to 
around 4 to 7 ft. Sub advisory conditions arrive Tuesday night, with 
ocean seas down to around 2 to 3 ft by Wednesday.

&&

.HYDROLOGY...
No hydrologic impacts are anticipated from this weekend's storm 
system despite the fact that 1.5 to 2 inches of liquid is expected 
across the area. Thereafter no hydrologic impacts are anticipated
through the remainder of the forecast period.

&&

.OKX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CT...Winter Weather Advisory until 7 AM EST Sunday for CTZ005>008.
     High Wind Watch from Sunday evening through Monday afternoon 
     for CTZ005>012.
     Winter Weather Advisory until 1 AM EST Sunday for CTZ009>012.
NY...Winter Weather Advisory until 7 AM EST Sunday for NYZ067-068.
     High Wind Watch from Sunday evening through Monday afternoon 
     for NYZ067>075-078>081-176>179.
     Winter Weather Advisory until 1 AM EST Sunday for NYZ069>071.
NJ...Winter Weather Advisory until 7 AM EST Sunday for NJZ002.
     High Wind Watch from Sunday evening through Monday afternoon 
     for NJZ002-004-006-103>108.
     Winter Weather Advisory until 1 AM EST Sunday for NJZ004-
     103>105.
MARINE...Gale Watch from Sunday afternoon through Monday evening for 
     ANZ331-332-335-338-340-345.
     Gale Watch from Sunday morning through Monday evening for 
     ANZ350-353-355.

&&

$$
