292 
FXUS61 KOKX 140231
AFDOKX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service New York NY
1031 PM EDT Tue May 13 2025

.SYNOPSIS...
Low pressure will slowly drift closer through Wednesday before
weakening into Thursday. Another frontal system will move across
from Friday into Saturday. High pressure will gradually return early
next week as low pressure lingers just east of New England. 

&&

.NEAR TERM /THROUGH WEDNESDAY/...
Forecast remains on track this evening. Made some minor 
adjustments to slow down timing of higher PoPs overnight. This 
is due to lingering surface ridging and dry air impacting the 
progression of the showers. 

A closed upper level low over the Ohio and TN valleys and Western 
Appalachians will slowly draw closer throughout the course of 
tonight. At the same time a high pressure ridge off the New England 
coast which has been holding will edge further off shore. This 
gradually paves the way for increased forcing to slowly work in from 
the WSW. An onshore E flow will continue through tonight. 
Increased convergence towards the frontal boundary nearby will 
result in an overall increase in shower coverage, but this may
not occur to very late tonight or even early Wednesday morning.
Otherwise, a mild night with cloud cover and an onshore flow 
results in above average temperatures with lows in the middle 
and upper 50s, to around 60 in the metro.

During Wednesday look for the steadiest rain to arrive for most of 
the area during the morning and a portion of the afternoon. What 
drives the vertical motion leading to more enhanced shower / rain 
activity will be increased warm advection at 850 mb. Further east 
and northeast more widespread and consistent rain will arrive into 
the afternoon and into Wednesday evening. There do remain some 
timing difference among the various HREF members and high res 
guidance. BUFKIT soundings are not very suggestive of thunder for 
the most part early on, with only the slightest hint of elevated 
instability. Showalter indices approach zero late in the day and 
perhaps this is the greatest chance at seeing some quasi-embedded 
convective elements in the precip shield. Thus, carried only slight 
chance thunder mainly for the southern 2/3 of the area into 
Wednesday and Wednesday night.

&&

.SHORT TERM /WEDNESDAY NIGHT THROUGH THURSDAY/...
During Wednesday night the more widespread rain / shower activity 
should decrease in coverage for the most part. But with the upper 
level portion of the disturbance moving slowly and any vorticity 
becoming concentric with PVA decreasing look for shower activity 
coverage overall to decrease, especially later at night. The surface 
low should continue to slowly weaken in response to the upper level 
trough deamplifying. With cloud cover and a moist SE to E low level 
flow continuing temperatures will remain elevated with lows once 
again in the upper half of the 50s to around 60.

On Thursday clouds linger with the remnants of the sfc low remaining 
to the immediate south. With the lack of a true forcing mechanism 
look for just a chance of scattered to isolated shower activity. 
Cannot rule out an isolated thunderstorm or two. The day however 
does not appear to be a washout with an overall decrease in shower 
activity from the previous 24 hours. Temperatures with the onshore 
flow continuing will range from the upper 60s to lower 70s, near 
normal for this time of year.

&&

.LONG TERM /THURSDAY NIGHT THROUGH TUESDAY/...
Key Points:

* An unsettled weather regime likely continues through the 
  upcoming weekend, potentially next Monday.
 
* It will not be a washout Friday and Saturday despite chances 
  for showers (possibly a thunderstorm each afternoon and 
  evening).

* Diurnally driven isolated to scattered showers remain 
  possible Sunday and Monday afternoon.

* Temperatures will mainly run above normal through early next 
  week. 

A blocky synoptic pattern will continue through early next week.
The upper trough/upper low that impacts the area midweek will 
continue to weaken as it slides across the northeast Thursday night. 
Another upper low and associated trough over the Northern Plains 
will then gradually slide eastward towards the Great Lakes Friday 
into Saturday and then move across New England late this weekend. 
Surface low pressure over the Northern Plains on Friday will send a 
warm front across the area. Shortwave energy associated with the 
front is weak and dampened out by ridging over the eastern seaboard. 
Have largely capped PoPs off at chance with potential of showers 
mainly Friday afternoon and evening. Some CAPE may be available for 
a slight chance of thunder. Low pressure weakens as it moves towards 
the region this weekend due to the system becoming vertically 
stacked. The associated cold front will likely move across the 
region late Saturday into Saturday night. This will bring additional 
chances for showers and possibly a few thunderstorms as 
probabilities for SBCAPE to exceed 500 J/kg are higher in the NBM. 
The highest probabilities for precip and thunder currently exist 
north and west of the NYC metro. 

The lingering upper low and surface system should push offshore 
Sunday into early next week. Cyclonic flow and potential of a 
lingering cold pool aloft may support diurnally driven isolated to 
scattered showers Sunday and Monday afternoons. The upper low and 
trough may linger offshore next Tuesday with ridging building just 
to our west. Given a consensus of building heights aloft, have kept 
the forecast dry for next Tuesday and went slightly lower than the 
NBM PoPs. 

Temperatures will be in the upper 70s to around 80 away from the 
immediate coast, with low to middle 70s along the coast, Friday and 
Saturday. Westerly flow on Sunday should allow the entire area to 
reach the middle and upper 70s. Temperatures trend a bit cooler 
early next week, but still may remain above normal, especially on 
Monday.

&&

.AVIATION /03Z WEDNESDAY THROUGH SUNDAY/...
A weak frontal boundary will remain nearly stationary into
tonight near the NYC metro terminals while weak low pressure 
approaches from the south. 

VFR or MVFR to start at most terminals. Earlier rain showers 
had dissipated for the most part, but a more organized band
should move into the NYC metro area this evening and slowly
overspread the rest of the area overnight into daytime Wed, with
slight chance of thunder daytime Wed as well. Flight cat should
deteriorate to IFR at the NYC metros after 02Z-03Z and at 
points farther north/east after 05Z-06Z, and remain that way 
through the rest of the fcst period. LIFR cigs are possible 
mainly at the coastal terminals from very late tonight into most
of Wed morning. 

Winds should be either side of 10 kt through tonight, then 
10-15 kt with gusts over 20 kt daytime Wed. Direction will 
generally be from the E or ESE.

 ...NY Metro (KEWR/KLGA/KJFK/KTEB) TAF Uncertainty...

Timing of lower cigs will likely require amendment. 

.OUTLOOK FOR 00Z THURSDAY THROUGH SATURDAY...

Wednesday night: Low stratus/fog with IFR/LIFR cond at times. 
Periods of rain with slight chance of tstms. 

Thursday: MVFR possible with chance of showers and possibly 
a tstm. 

Friday and Saturday: Chance of MVFR and showers. Slight chance
of tstms each afternoon into early evening. 

Sunday...Mainly VFR. 

Detailed information, including hourly TAF wind component
forecasts, can be found at: https:/www.weather.gov/zny/n90

&&

.MARINE...
Sub advisory conditions continue through tonight. However, ocean 
seas begin to build during Wednesday with small craft conditions 
developing from west to east across the ocean waters along with
gusts for portions of the ocean gusting to 25 kt. Ocean seas 
will range primarily from 5 to 6 feet with small craft seas 
likely lingering through the day Thursday.

Conditions will be below SCA levels by Thursday night, and
remain so into the upcoming weekend with a relatively weak 
pressure gradient over the waters.

&&

.HYDROLOGY...
There are no concerns at this time regarding hydrologic impacts from 
rainfall tonight through Thursday with around 1 inch of rainfall 
expected across western and southwestern portions of the area. Lower 
rainfall totals are expected across the remainder of the area.

There are also no hydrologic concerns Thursday night through 
early next week.

&&

.OKX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CT...None.
NY...None.
NJ...None.
MARINE...Small Craft Advisory from 11 AM Wednesday to 6 PM EDT Thursday 
     for ANZ350.
     Small Craft Advisory from 6 AM Wednesday to 6 PM EDT Thursday 
     for ANZ353-355.

&&

$$

SYNOPSIS...JE/BG/DS
NEAR TERM...JE/BG/DS
SHORT TERM...JE/BG
LONG TERM...DS
AVIATION...BG
MARINE...JE/BG/DS
HYDROLOGY...JE/DS
