452 
FXUS61 KOKX 040927
AFDOKX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service New York NY
427 AM EST Tue Feb 4 2025

.SYNOPSIS...
A cold front passes across the area by daybreak. High pressure
will then build from the Great Lakes through Wednesday. A low 
pressure system will impact the area late Wednesday night and 
into Thursday. High pressure returns on Friday followed by
another low pressure this weekend.

&&

.NEAR TERM /THROUGH TONIGHT/...
Latest surface analysis indicates the cold front beginning push
through the northern half of the area as of 4am. The front will
continue to move across the rest of the area through day break.  
Weak lift is producing some cloud cover, but there is not 
enough moisture for any precipitation. 

Strong cold advection will take place behind the front today 
bringing a gusty NW flow. Mild temperatures to start the day
will only rise a few degrees with high temperatures peaking in 
the upper 30s inland to low and middle 40s closer to the coast. 
Temperature should begin to fall in the afternoon. The NW gusts 
also look to peak this afternoon, generally 25 to 35 mph, 
although a few gusts close to 40 mph cannot be ruled out near 
the coast. There may be some stratocu in the afternoon, but 
overall skies look to be mostly clear. 

The pressure gradient begins to relax tonight as high pressure
over the Great Lakes builds closer to the northeast. The windy 
conditions will subside through the night with any gusts 
diminishing around midnight. A fast zonal flow aloft will begin 
to push middle and upper level moisture towards the area 
overnight helping to increase cloud cover early Wednesday 
morning. The cold advection should be enough to allow 
temperatures to drop into the teens inland and lower and middle 
20s at the coast despite the boundary layer not completely 
decoupling and increasing clouds.

&&

.SHORT TERM /WEDNESDAY THROUGH THURSDAY NIGHT/...
The high pressure will settle over the area on Wednesday. There
will be some weak shortwave energy passing to our south within 
the fast flow aloft. The lower levels are dry and subsidence 
from the high pressure will help prevent any precipitation over 
the area during the daytime on Wednesday. There may be a bit 
thicker cloud cover across the southern half of the area closer 
to the passing shortwave energy with portions of eastern CT and 
eastern Long Island potentially remaining partly cloudy. 
Temperatures will be much colder with highs only in the lower to
mid 30s. 

Attention then turns to an approaching low pressure and its 
associated frontal system, which will impact the area late
Wednesday night into Thursday. The overall evolution of the 
system has not changed much in the model guidance over the last 
few days. The main challenges continue to be with precipitation 
types and amounts. However, this is a fast moving system and 
much of the precip looks to fall in about a 6 to 9 hour period 
from early Thursday morning into early Thursday afternoon. The 
strongest lift and deepest moisture arrive around or just before
the morning commute with the likelihood of a period of 
accumulating snow. Due to the strengthening SW flow in the lower
and middle levels and approaching warm front, a warm nose will 
likely develop bringing in a wintry mix from west to east 
through Thursday morning. The coast will go over to plain rain 
the quickest as temperatures rise above freezing. The surface 
cold air likely takes the longest to dislodge across the 
interior of NE NJ, Lower Hudson Valley, and interior CT for a 
period of freezing rain mid to late Thursday morning. Surface 
temperatures should begin to rise above freezing midday into the
afternoon for these areas. 

There is some concern that surface temperatures struggle to rise 
above freezing for some of the interior due to secondary low 
pressure development just south of Long Island. This could help 
reinforce a light NE flow inland. Did not go this cold yet, but
it is a trend to watch in the next 24 hours as this could lead 
to longer duration of light freezing rain or drizzle before the 
precip comes to an end in the afternoon. A slower warm nose and 
slower erosion of cold air at the surface could lead to a bit 
more snow. There is also a chance the warm nose comes in quicker
aloft, but surface temperatures remain at or just below 
freezing even at the coast. This may lead to a brief period of 
freezing rain here.

Impacts to the morning commute are expected across the entire 
region. Snowfall accumulations are around an inch near the coast
and NYC metro with up to around 2 inches possible across the 
interior. Ice accretion up to around one tenth possible across 
interior NE NJ, Lower Hudson Valley, and potentially interior S 
CT. A Winter Weather Advisory will likely be needed for the 
interior where freezing rain occurs later Thursday morning.

Dry conditions are likely for the Thursday evening commute as the 
system pushes offshore. A cold front follows Thursday night into 
early Friday morning. Temperatures look to stay above normal 
Thursday night with lows mainly in the 30s.

&&

.LONG TERM /FRIDAY THROUGH MONDAY/...
After a cold fropa early Fri AM, high pressure will build from
the west on a brisk/gusty W-NW flow. Winds should settle down 
Fri night especially late as the center of the building high 
nears the area, allowing temps to bottom out in the teens and 
20s after daytime highs from the upper 30s to mid 40s. 

As the high moves E on Sat, the next in a series of frontal
systems should start making its presence felt Sat afternoon, 
with snow chances mainly for the western half of the area 
including NYC metro. Snow Sat evening should start to mix with 
sleet and then freezing rain late outside of the NYC metro area 
especially to the north/west, and change to all rain for the NYC
metro area and Long Island at first, then inland after daybreak
Sunday. Sys has the potential to bring advy level snowfall to 
most areas outside of NYC/Long Island, with any light icing 
occurring on top of snow that has already fallen. Precip chances
then taper off, with dry cond returning during Sunday afternoon
and continuing into Monday as high pressure builds from the 
west. 

&&

.AVIATION /09Z TUESDAY THROUGH SATURDAY/...
A cold front will move through before the start of the AM
push, then strong high pressure will build from the NW today 
and tonight. 

VFR. Cold front was through most of CT and the Hudson Valley and 
entering the NYC areas as of 09Z, with winds shifting mostly W-NW
in its wake. Winds start to increase for the AM push, with 
speeds 15-25 kt gusting to 25-30 kt with a few higher gusts at 
times late this morning into this afternoon. NW Winds diminish 
tonight. 

 ...NY Metro (KEWR/KLGA/KJFK/KTEB) TAF Uncertainty...

A few gusts up to 35 kt possible this afternoon. 

.OUTLOOK FOR 06Z WEDNESDAY THROUGH SATURDAY... 

Late tonight: VFR with diminishing NW winds. 

Wednesday: VFR. 

Wednesday night: MVFR or lower cond in light snow after midnight. 

Thursday: MVFR or lower cond as light snow/sleet changes to
rain after about 14Z-15Z for the NYC metros and KISP. 
Snow/sleet should change to rain by afternoon at KBDR/KGON. 
Snow/sleet at KSWF should change to a brief period of freezing 
rain late in the morning before changing to all rain by 18Z. 
Snowfall amts should be light, mainly either side of an inch, 
possibly closer to 2 inches at KSWF, lower at KISP. 

Thursday night: Rain ending with cond becoming VFR. 

Friday: VFR. W winds G20-25kt. 

Saturday: Chance of snow with IFR cond in the afternoon. Snow 
changing to a wintry mixed expected at night. 

Detailed information, including hourly TAF wind component forecasts, 
can be found at: https:/www.weather.gov/zny/n90

&&

.MARINE...
SCA cond develop on all waters on today behind a cold front
passage in a strong NW flow, with gusts up to 30 kt possible. 
Winds and seas then gradually lower tonight into Wed with high 
pressure building from the NW, with conditions below SCA on all 
waters daytime Wednesday. Another period of SCA conditions are 
likely, especially on the ocean Thursday into Thursday due to a 
low pressure system impacting the waters.

SCA cond still likely for the ocean waters on Fri W-NW winds gust 
over 25 kt and seas build to 5-7 ft. Leftover 5-6 ft seas Fri 
evening should subside below 5 ft throughout around or shortly after 
midnight.

&&

.HYDROLOGY...
There are no hydrologic concerns through next weekend.

&&

.OKX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CT...None.
NY...None.
NJ...None.
MARINE...Small Craft Advisory from 9 AM this morning to 10 PM EST this 
     evening for ANZ331-332-335-338-340-345.
     Small Craft Advisory until 1 AM EST Wednesday for ANZ350-353.
     Small Craft Advisory until 1 AM EST Wednesday for ANZ355.

&&

$$

SYNOPSIS...BG/DS
NEAR TERM...DS
SHORT TERM...DS
LONG TERM...BG
AVIATION...BG
MARINE...BG/DS
HYDROLOGY...BG/DS
