836 
FXUS61 KOKX 250853
AFDOKX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service New York NY
453 AM EDT Mon Aug 25 2025

.SYNOPSIS...
A slow moving cold front temporarily stalls nearby today before 
getting east of the area tonight. A weak secondary cold front pivots 
through late Tuesday and Tuesday night, otherwise high pressure 
gradually builds mid week. A frontal system approaches Friday and 
swings through to begin the weekend as high pressure settles in.

&&

.NEAR TERM /THROUGH TONIGHT/...
A cold front back to the west has slowed a bit more than originally 
progged. Therefore the winds will be light and mainly out of the SW 
going through the day, with perhaps a hybrid light sea breeze for 
eastern coastal sections with a weak synoptic gradient overall as 
the front more or less crawls near and eventually through the 
region. Basically expecting the front to really not get through 
during the course of the day. Certainly a bit humid with dew point 
readings primarily in the middle 60s, with a few upper 60s further 
east for a good portion of the day. It really won't be until later 
in the evening when dew points begin to move some. Overall a 
seasonably warm day with a fair amount of sunshine developing after 
morning clouds and even some patchy fog early on in a few spots. As 
the front tries to get through cannot rule out some showers or a 
thundershower, with the best chance (albeit a low one) across 
northern and northeastern portions of the area like the Lower Hudson 
Valley and Southern Connecticut. Temperatures will likely average a 
few degrees above normal with mainly lower and middle 80s, and with 
the humidity in place it will have a muggy feel to some degree. 

For tonight look for somewhat less humid air to work in gradually. 
By the mid to late evening the drop in humidity should be more 
noticeable. The winds will be light out of the NW, with the winds 
even going calm in a lot of places late at night with an overall 
light synoptic gradient. A cooler night overall with mainly middle 
and upper 50s for minimum temperatures across the interior, and 
mainly lower half of the 60s elsewhere.

&&

.SHORT TERM /TUESDAY THROUGH WEDNESDAY/...
High pressure for the most part will build into the region for mid 
week. A weak secondary cold front / sfc trough is progged to pivot 
through late Tuesday into Tuesday evening. This will reinforce the 
drier less humid air already in place. Temperatures overall should 
average a few degrees below normal, especially night time 
temperatures as a mostly clear sky and light winds at night will 
allow some radiational cooling in the non-urban areas. The only 
adjustment to the NBM during this period was with respect to day 
time cloud cover for both Tuesday and Wednesday, along with a 
sprinkle / shower chance added for a portion of the day Wednesday. A 
long wave trough will work in over time and impulses in the mid and 
upper levels pivots through from time to time. The dry weather 
regime will continue overall, but cannot completely rule out a few 
sprinkles or a brief shower on Wednesday with a cold pool aloft and 
cyclonic curvature in the mid levels. Otherwise fair skies overall, 
as the afternoons will feature some cu development with the cooler 
air aloft, thus added some cloud cover from the NBM on Tuesday, and 
especially on Wednesday.

&&

.LONG TERM /WEDNESDAY NIGHT THROUGH SUNDAY/...
Key Points:

* Predominantly dry conditions expected through Thursday, with 
  low end shower chances Friday.

* Temperatures will be near to slightly below normal for the period. 

Decent model agreement on the mass fields / large scale features 
through the week with a series of upper troughs advecting through 
the northeast with little fanfare. High pressure at the surface 
slowly makes its way east from the Central Plains heading south of 
the area by late week. Thus, with the high off to the west, an 
offshore flow at the surface should prevail, and so expecting mainly 
dry and cooler conditions Tuesday through Thursday. The only 
adjustment with respect to the NBM was to add a bit more in terms of 
diurnal cloud cover with upper level cool pool / troughiness. Thus 
some afternoon cu cloud formation should be expected. For Wednesday 
a passing shower or some sprinkles cannot be ruled out with upper 
level disturbance pivoting through, but no real sensible wx impacts 
are anticipated. By Friday, an upper trough approaches from the west 
along with a weak cold front. Precipitation chances do increase 
through the day on Friday, but with better forcing to our north via 
the aforementioned upper trough, not anticipating much in the way of 
shower activity associated with the system at this point. 

The NBM was closely followed for this update.

&&

.AVIATION /09Z MONDAY THROUGH FRIDAY/...
A cold front slowly approaches overnight and moves across the 
terminals today. High pressure builds in tonight into Tuesday.

300-400 ft stratus starting to move over eastern Long Island and
southeastern CT. The question remains, how far west will the  
LIFR cigs reach. Still some uncertainty to whether or not it 
reaches the NYC terminals. 

Conditions vary, anywhere from VFR to VLIFR across the area.
However, generally expect MVFR to IFR for most terminals for the
remainder of the night into the early morning hours. 
Improvement is expected an hour or so after daybreak for most 
terminals.

A line of showers continues to move across eastern PA and NY 
however these showers will enter a more stable environment and 
should fall apart by the time they reach the NYC terminals. 
Still can not rule out some showers at some of the terminals 
late tonight into early Monday morning, with the best chances 
across KSWF. Conditions improve Monday morning back to MVFR then
VFR.

Winds will be light and variable overnight, then become 
SW and W Monday morning at 5 to 10 kt, increasing to 10 to 15 kt
at the metro terminals by the afternoon. Winds continue to 
shift to the WNW late Monday afternoon into the evening and
diminish.

 ...NY Metro (KEWR/KLGA/KJFK/KTEB) TAF Uncertainty...

Unscheduled amendments likely due to uncertainty in flight 
level categories.

.OUTLOOK FOR 06Z TUESDAY THROUGH FRIDAY...

Monday night: VFR. W winds shifting to the NW 10 kt or less.

Tuesday - Friday: VFR.

Detailed information, including hourly TAF wind component forecasts, 
can be found at: https:/www.weather.gov/zny/n90

&&

.MARINE...
Sub small craft conditions should prevail on the ocean for much, if 
not all of today. Seas do however become more marginal towards late 
in the afternoon as a east to southeast swell attempts to increase 
slightly into this evening. Thus, a small craft advisory has been 
issued for mostly marginal 4 1/2 to 5 ft seas. The western ocean may 
fall a bit short of 5 ft seas, but with the swell lingering have 
chosen to have small craft advisories in effect for all ocean zones.

Seas then fall below small craft criteria on Tuesday with relatively 
light winds and a weak pressure gradient overall as high pressure 
takes control through mid week. Other than noted above, winds and 
waves are expected to remain below advisory criteria through the 
remainder of the week.

&&

.HYDROLOGY...
There are no hydrologic concerns this week.

&&

.TIDES/COASTAL FLOODING...
The high rip current risk continues through this evening with 3 to 5 
ft. surf with long period swells. However, for Tuesday the period 
decreases enough that the rip risk falls to moderate.

&&

.OKX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CT...None.
NY...High Risk for Rip Currents through this evening for NYZ075-080-081-
     178-179.
NJ...None.
MARINE...Small Craft Advisory from 6 PM this evening to 6 AM EDT 
     Tuesday for ANZ350-353-355.

&&

$$

SYNOPSIS...JE/DBR
NEAR TERM...JE
SHORT TERM...JE
LONG TERM...JE/DBR
AVIATION...JP
MARINE...JE/DBR
HYDROLOGY...JE/DBR
TIDES/COASTAL FLOODING...
