479 
FXUS61 KOKX 172005
AFDOKX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service New York NY
405 PM EDT Thu Jul 17 2025

.SYNOPSIS...
A cold front moves through the area tonight. High pressure 
builds in Friday then moves offshore during Saturday with a 
warm front moving to the north. A cold front moves through the 
area late Sunday. High pressure builds in for early next week. A
frontal boundary will be nearby for Wednesday and Thursday.

&&

.NEAR TERM /UNTIL 6 AM FRIDAY MORNING/...
The area remains in the warm sector of a large low pressure system
this afternoon. The cold front associated with this low pressure 
passing to the north of the area will push through this evening and 
overnight. Given the ample heat and moisture over the area today, 
moderate amounts of instability will be present this afternoon. 
Instability combined with 25-35kt of 0-6km shear should be ample 
enough to allow for the potential for strong to isolated severe 
thunderstorms, should any storms develop. 

Most of the strongest forcing associated with this cold frontal 
passage will be north of the area. Despite this, CAMs are 
consistently showing isolated to at most scattered convection that 
moves into the area from the northwest this afternoon. SPC has much 
of the western half of the area in a marginal risk for severe storms 
this evening, with the primary threat being gusty winds. Any storms 
that do develop should weaken and dissipate by or shortly after
sunset.

Additionally a heat advisory remains in effect through 10PM 
this evening for heat index values of 98-103 for much of the 
area. 

The cold front will push through the area tonight allowing for 
a shift of the wind to the NW. This will allow for drying of the
airmass and lowering of the dew points into the 60s. This cold 
frontal passage will allow the hot and humid conditions to end. 
Lows tonight will be in the upper 60s to middle 70s with the 
warmest locations being along the coast and for the NYC Metro.

&&

.SHORT TERM /6 AM FRIDAY MORNING THROUGH FRIDAY NIGHT/...
By Friday, the area will be behind the departing cold front to the 
east. High pressure over the Great Lakes regions will gradually 
build into the area during the day Friday and into Friday night. 
This high pressure will keep the area dry with skies being mostly 
clear to partly cloudy. Highs will be in the low to middle 80s. 

Lower dew points into the low 60s to upper 50s will allow for
much more comfortable conditions. Lows Friday night will be able
to drop into the 60s for most with upper 50s possible for the
far interior NW portions of the area.

&&

.LONG TERM /SATURDAY THROUGH THURSDAY/...
Near zonal upper flow Saturday gives way to a upper trough 
passing to the north Sunday into early Monday. At the surface 
high pressure will be moving offshore Saturday with a warm front
moving across the region. Weak surface low pressure passing 
through the Great Lakes and into upstate New York and into New 
England Saturday night into Sunday will bring a cold front 
across the region. Showers and thunderstorms will be possible 
later Saturday into Sunday. Sunday will see a return to warm and
humid conditions with heat indices 90 to 94 across much of the 
region, and dew points in the lower 70s. And with high 
precipitable water values any scattered thunderstorms could 
produce briefly heavy rainfall. Timing of the cold front passage
remains consistent and looks to be Sunday late 
afternoon/evening. Much drier air returns behind the cold front 
with temperatures returning to more seasonal normals Monday 
through Wednesday. The cold front that moved through 
Sunday/Sunday night will remain south of the region, and 
possibly return north as a warm front later Wednesday into 
Thursday, bringing warm and humid conditions back to the area.

&&

.AVIATION /20Z THURSDAY THROUGH TUESDAY/...
A cold front is nearing the area from the west and north today from 
a low pressure system over southern Ontario. This front will pass 
through the area this evening. High pressure builds in from the west 
tonight into tomorrow.

Mainly VFR is expected through the TAF period. MVFR is possible in 
SHRA/TSRA roughly 20Z-02Z today (late afternoon to early 
evening). Coverage looks sparse and location is uncertain, so 
have kept out of the TAFs except for a TEMPO for TSRA at KSWF 
20Z-00Z. Its possible these may be added in amendments later, 
should confidence increase.

SW winds will continue to increase into the afternoon, 15-20 kt with 
gusts 20-25 kt. Can't rule out a stray gust up to 30 kt at the NYC 
metros. Following FROPA, winds become NW mid to late evening at 10-
15 kts with gusts of around 20 kts becoming occasional. Outlying 
terminals may drop below 10 kts overnight. Kept gusts out of TAFs 
tomorrow, with winds NW/NNW around 10 kt.

 ...NY Metro (KEWR/KLGA/KJFK/KTEB) TAF Uncertainty...

SW winds could briefly gust up to 30 kt late this afternoon.

An isolated shower or tstm may be possible from about 19Z-02Z.

.OUTLOOK FOR 18Z FRIDAY THROUGH TUESDAY... 

Friday night-Saturday: VFR. 

Saturday night and Sunday: Showers likely, chance of tstms. MVFR or 
lower cond likely. 

Monday-Tuesday: VFR.

Detailed information, including hourly TAF wind component forecasts, 
can be found at: https:/www.weather.gov/zny/n90

&&

.MARINE...
Strengthening SW flow will bring a period of marginal SCA
conditions to the ocean waters E of Fire Island Inlet late this
afternoon into the overnight. The remaining waters may see some
occasional near shore gusts up to 25 kt this afternoon. High 
pressure will build in on Friday, with conditions remaining 
below SCA thresholds from then through Tuesday.

&&

.HYDROLOGY...
Hydrologic impacts are not expected through the middle of next 
week.

&&

.TIDES/COASTAL FLOODING...
The risk for rip current development remain moderate this
evening, and surf height will be 2-3 ft. The moderate risk will
continue Friday and Saturday, with winds from the NW-W and a 
remaining S swell Friday, and S winds and a southerly swell
Saturday.

&&

.OKX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CT...Heat Advisory until 10 PM EDT this evening for CTZ005>012.
     Air Quality Alert until 11 PM EDT this evening for CTZ009-010.
NY...Heat Advisory until 10 PM EDT this evening for NYZ067>075-
     078>081-176>179.
NJ...Heat Advisory until 10 PM EDT this evening for NJZ002-004-006-
     103>108.
MARINE...Small Craft Advisory until 6 AM EDT Friday for ANZ350-353.

&&

$$

SYNOPSIS...MET/MW
NEAR TERM...MW
SHORT TERM...MW
LONG TERM...MET
AVIATION...BR
MARINE...MET/MW
HYDROLOGY...MET/MW
TIDES/COASTAL FLOODING...MET
