761 
FXUS61 KOKX 180905
AFDOKX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service New York NY
405 AM EST Sat Jan 18 2025

.SYNOPSIS...
A frontal system passes by today with low pressure moving east 
tonight. Another wave of low pressure develops the Mid Atlantic 
coast on Sunday and pushes northeast into Sunday night. An 
arctic airmass builds into the region for the rest of the week. 
A weak low may pass offshore on Wednesday, with chances for 
another low to impact the area during the end of the week. 

&&

.NEAR TERM /THROUGH TONIGHT/...
High pressure continues to push offshore with a cold front 
approaching from the west through the day. Southerly flow will 
warm temperatures and increase moisture ahead of the frontal 
passage tonight. High temperatures today will be in the middle 
to upper 40s for the coastal areas and low 40s for the 
interior.

Scattered showers will begin to approach the area late morning and 
gradually become more widespread into the afternoon. Enhanced 
lift and moisture over the eastern CWA will allow for more 
robust development of showers as the front approaches this 
afternoon. Generally less than a quarter of an inch of rain is 
expected.

The front passes by overnight which dries the area out and shifts 
the wind back to the W and eventually NW into early Sunday morning. 
Lows will be in the middle 20s to low 30s.

&&

.SHORT TERM /SUNDAY THROUGH MONDAY/...
Attention then turns to a developing low pressure system over the 
Mid-Atlantic on Sunday being forced by a mid-level shortwave 
rounding the base of a large trough. As the low pressure system 
gradually strengthens into Sunday afternoon, moisture overruns the 
northern side of the low and precipitation blossoms over the area. 
This will be aided by large scale synoptic forcing as the area will 
likely remain on the left-exit region of an upper-level jet streak.

It is worth mentioning that while confidence is high in the 
development of a low pressure system, confidence in the strength and 
track of the low remains more uncertain than typically expected 
within a 48 hour timeframe. There are generally two solutions for 
this system: A more amplified and stronger low that rides closer to 
the coast with more synoptic lift and moisture; and a weaker, more 
transient low that rides south of the CWA. These two solutions and 
the possible variations between them make this forecast particularly 
difficult for various reasons.

A more amplified, stronger low will result in more lift and the 
realization of more precipitation on the northern periphery of the 
low. This would make for a winter storm warning level snowfall for 
the interior CWA with a widespread 4-8 inches of snow with 
locally up to 10". Since this would likely result in a closer 
pass of the low, coastal areas would see a combination of less 
synoptic forcing with the center of the low passing nearby as 
well as more moderate temperatures and a likelihood of a 
primarily rain or mostly rain event, especially for Long Island.
The CMC has been consistent in this type of solution for the 
last several days.

A weaker, more transient low that passes more to the south of the 
CWA may result in generally lighter precipitation rates, but a 
primarily snow event for much of the CWA, though some mixing for the 
immediate south coast remains possible. This would result in a 
snowier solution for the coast, but with lesser snowfall totals for 
the entire CWA. A weaker and more transient low would result in a 
widespread 2-5 inches for much of the CWA, or a winter weather 
advisory-type event. The ECMWF and more recently the NAM have this 
type of solution. The GFS has a type of hybrid solution with a 
stronger low that passes more south of the areas resulting in a more 
widespread warning level event for the interior and a high end 
advisory level event for the coast.

Given the remaining large amount of uncertainty, haven't changed the 
forecast much from previous. The biggest change has been a slight 
downward trend in the snowfall for Long Island and the SE CT 
coastline due to the uncertainty of the p-type during the best 
synoptic lift Sunday evening. A Winter Storm Watch remains in effect 
for the interior portions of the CWA for the potential of 4-8 inches 
of snow.

The low departs the area Sunday night with strong high pressure 
building into the area from the est into Monday. A brisk NW 
flow will allow for strong CAA. Highs on Monday will be in the 
20s.

&&

.LONG TERM /MONDAY NIGHT THROUGH FRIDAY/...
It will be cold thru the extended, particularly thru Thu, as an 
arctic airmass builds into the region. This has been a consistent 
high confidence feature of the fcst. Min apparent temps Mon ngt and 
Tue ngt around -10 per the latest data. If we develop a good 
snowpack, some of the overnight temps may need to be adjusted down a 
few degrees. Some modification in temps towards the end of the week, 
with highs perhaps eclipsing freezing at the coasts on Fri. 

Outside of the cold, there are two chances for pcpn. The first is 
late Tue ngt and Wed with the area on the nrn edge of a moisture 
shield as a shrtwv passes thru. The GFS and ECMWF are in pretty good 
agreement with the overall idea of the sys. The sfc low is progged 
to be well offshore, but it will not take much moisture with the 
very cold airmass in place to produce some high ratio lgt snow. Srn 
areas favored attm, with NBM blended pops coming in in the chc 
category. 

The next chc for pcpn is around Fri with a potentially stronger and 
closer low. Right now, the GFS is would be a snow event for most of 
the area, particularly ern areas. Strong waa on the ern side 
however, so any wwd trend could bring rain or a mix to the coasts at 
least. Of course, the ECMWF is too far out to sea to produce any 
pcpn across the cwa, so confidence in the sys is low. The NBM pops 
are actually dry, but based on the prev fcst and the GFS/pattern, 
manually brought the entire cwa up to slight chc.

&&

.AVIATION /09Z SATURDAY THROUGH WEDNESDAY/...
A frontal system approaches from the west today, passing through 
this aftn.

VFR this mrng with lowering cigs. MVFR or lower possible after 17Z 
or so with rain developing. Rain ends by 00-03Z and conditions begin 
to improve to VFR overnight into Sun AM. IFR cigs can't be ruled out 
at times.

Increasing sly flow this mrng, with gusts around 20kt at times into 
this aftn. Winds drop below 10 kt this evening and flow goes NW 
tonight.

 ...NY Metro (KEWR/KLGA/KJFK/KTEB) TAF Uncertainty... 

Gust may only be ocnl JFK/LGA thru 12Z. Timing of MVFR conds and 
rain could be off by an hour or two. IFR cigs possible.

.OUTLOOK FOR 06Z SUNDAY THROUGH WEDNESDAY...

Late Tonight: VFR with NW winds.

Sunday: MVFR or lower with snow developing in the afternoon and 
ending overnight.

Monday: Mainly VFR. MVFR possible in the morning. NW wind gusts near 
20 kt.

Tuesday: VFR. W wind gusts around 20 kt.

Wednesday: Chance of MVFR or lower in -SN, particularly coastal 
arpts.

Detailed information, including hourly TAF wind component forecasts, 
can be found at: https:/www.weather.gov/zny/n90

&&

.MARINE...
A SCA remains in effect for the ocean with increasing S wind gusts 
and wave heights ahead of an approaching frontal system. More 
marginal small craft conditions are expected along the south shore 
bays of LI. The winds then switch to a more W direction with a cold 
front swinging through tonight as sub-SCA conditions prevail through 
the day Sunday, although visibilities will lower. Winds and seas 
begin to increase late Sunday afternoon and evening with developing 
low pressure moving closer. As the low pulls away Sunday night, SCA 
conditions should prevail across all waters with a gusty WNW behind 
another cold front. Gales force gusts will be possible on the ocean 
zones Sunday night through early Monday morning. Freezing spray
will be likely on much of the ocean and LIS waters Monday.

Marginal SCA conditions on the ocean on Tuesday, then winds and
waves likely below SCA levels all waters Wednesday through
Thursday. Some freezing spray can be expected on Tuesday.

&&

.HYDROLOGY...
No hydrologic issues are anticipated through next Friday.

&&

.OKX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CT...Winter Storm Watch from Sunday afternoon through late Sunday 
     night for CTZ005>007.
NY...Winter Storm Watch from Sunday afternoon through late Sunday 
     night for NYZ067>070.
NJ...Winter Storm Watch from Sunday afternoon through late Sunday 
     night for NJZ002-004-103>105-107.
MARINE...Small Craft Advisory until 9 PM EST this evening for ANZ350-
     353-355.

&&

$$

SYNOPSIS...JMC/MW
NEAR TERM...MW
SHORT TERM...MW
LONG TERM...JMC
AVIATION...JMC
MARINE...JMC/MW
HYDROLOGY...JMC/MW
