671 
FXUS61 KOKX 172342
AFDOKX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service New York NY
642 PM EST Fri Jan 17 2025

.SYNOPSIS...
High pressure slides offshore tonight, followed by a frontal 
boundary towards late Saturday into Saturday night. A wave of low 
pressure develops along the Mid Atlantic coast on Sunday and pushes 
northeast into Sunday night. Low pressure departs to the northeast 
on Monday with a strong arctic high pressure system building into
the area through the middle of next week. Another low pressure 
system may approach late in the week.

&&

.NEAR TERM /THROUGH SATURDAY/...
No major changes to the forecast with this update as it's mainly
on track. Only bumped up cloud cover for the next few hours
based on satellite trends.

A high pressure ridge nosing up from the south begins to get east 
tonight. This gets the region on the western side of the ridge axis 
later tonight with a weak return flow setting up out of the WSW. 
Initially at the start skies should be fair to mostly clear. 
Temperatures will fall some this evening, especially in more 
sheltered location where the winds will be lighter to calm and less 
cloud cover for the first half of the night. However, with a milder 
airmass in place compared to the previous few days there will be a 
lid sort to speak on how much temperatures can fall as dew points 
only bottom out in the 20s. Therefore look for temperatures to only 
fall to around freezing in the metro locations, with mainly middle 
and upper 20s in most outlying locations. Upper and mid level clouds 
will begin to filter in later at night.

For Saturday look for mostly cloudy skies for the morning, but it 
should be dry for a good portion of the day. PoPs will begin to 
increase in the afternoon as cold front off to the west begins to 
draw closer. Any lift initially will be driven by some moderate PVA. 
A milder southerly flow increases during the day which should get 
temperatures well into the 40s closer to the coast, and closer to 40 
for the northwestern interior sections. NWP is suggestive that the 
main batch of precipitation breaks out ahead of the cold frontal 
boundary for the afternoon and evening bringing showers into the 
region. Temperatures will be warm enough for all precip to be in the 
liquid form.

&&

.SHORT TERM /SATURDAY NIGHT THROUGH SUNDAY NIGHT/...
A winter storm is likely to impact the region Sunday into 
Sunday night. A winter storm watch has been issued for much of 
the northern and northwestern interior portions of the area. 

Any PVA shuts off with NVA ensuing towards and after 0z. 
Therefore any light rain should end by the mid to late evening 
as thermal advection will be weak. PoPs thus lower as the night 
progresses as the region gets in-between 2 systems. The front 
appears to go through some frontolysis / weakening as it is 
projected to cross through the area late Saturday night. Thus a 
milder SW flow should persist through the evening hours. A 
mostly cloudy night is expected, however some breaks may develop
later at night. Colder air is expected to gradually bleed into 
the region from the west towards early Sunday morning. 
Temperatures will fall back to seasonable levels with middle 20s
to lower 30s.

Then all eyes turn to a wave of low pressure moving across the lower 
Appalachians Sunday morning, then ENE to the Mid Atlantic coast 
later Sunday. Uncertainty remains high with mid level and the sfc 
low track / position, and thus high uncertainty around location 
specific temperature profiles. And this leads to high uncertainty 
around the derived liquid and frozen precip amounts. One big 
question right off the bat is how much sfc cold air can get all the 
way into the coastal plain for late Sunday morning as the wave of 
low pressure to our south begins to spin up. Therefore some light 
rain or a light wintry mix at onset towards mid day / early 
afternoon for at least the eastern 1/3, maybe even the eastern 1/2 
of the region. Further west profiles look cold enough for mainly all 
snow, even at the onset. The higher PoPs and steadiest precip looks 
to take place for the late afternoon and into the evening. The 
system overall is quite progressive and this will keep liquid 
equivalent amounts / QPF in check overall. However, at least half 
inch liquid precip amounts are suggested by the majority of the high 
res guidance, mainly from 18z Sun to 06z Mon. Thus a complicated 
situation with the higher res guidance and even the global guidance 
now having more precip over the colder mid level baroclinic zone 
with arctic air attempting to press in from the west. The 500 mb 
vorticity track is suggestive of a wintry mix and climatologically 
speaking when you have the 500 mb vort bisect the region you often 
don't have an all snow scenario for the coast. However, the system 
will be quite progressive and that offsets things some as the region 
looks to be completely on the cold side of the upper level jet 
dynamics. How much the cold air gets in determines precip type 
across eastern most areas and snow ratios further inland. This 
ultimately will determines liquid and subsequent snowfall totals. 
With all this said a Winter Storm Watch has been hoisted for most 
northern and northwester potions of the area. Thinking warning 
criteria snow is looking more likely across NW portions of the area, 
especially into most of the Hudson Valley and interior NE NJ, and 
across northern sections of Fairfield, New Haven, and Middlesex 
counties in CT for the potential for 5 to 8 inches of snow through 
Sunday evening. Elsewhere there is the potential for advisory level 
snow, and held off with any watches further east and southeast 
across the area with an increasing threat of mixing with rain, or 
perhaps just plain rain at the onset before a changeover to snow 
towards evening.

The steadier precip shuts off fairly quickly towards midnight, say 
(04-06z Mon) as the system moves quickly NE. Thus any precip / snow 
tapers quickly for the overnight period. The shortwave feature lifts 
further NE later at night and clearing should begin during the pre-
dawn hours, or at least towards daybreak from SW to NE. In any 
event, the arctic air completely presses in towards the Monday 
morning commute. Thus any moisture on surfaces and roadways will 
freeze solid as temperatures plummet mainly into the teens and lower 
20s and wind chills likely getting into the single digits to around 
10 above.

&&

.LONG TERM /MONDAY THROUGH FRIDAY/...
An arctic airmass filters into the region behind the departing storm 
on Monday and lingers through the middle of next week with the core 
of the cold air over us Monday night through Wednesday night. After 
highs only in the 20s on Monday, highs will only be in the teens for 
most spots Tuesday and Wednesday. Lows mostly in the single digits 
for Monday night and Tuesday night, and only slightly higher for 
Wednesday night. Adding to the chill will be gusty winds, which will 
be the strongest during the daytime on Monday. Given the current 
wind chill forecast, advisory criteria would be met for a good 
portion of the forecast area Monday night with a little less 
coverage for Tuesday night. Still plenty of time to see how things 
trend before any headlines are issued to address this. Minimum wind 
chills for both nights generally -5 to -15. 

Regarding precipitation, it still appears that low pressure will be 
passing well SE of the area during Wednesday. Models however show 
precip stretching out well NW from the center of the storm, perhaps 
owing in part to being in the right-entrance quadrant of a very 
strong upper jet streak. Will leave in slight chance PoPs for snow 
showers Tuesday night into Wednesday to account for this. The next 
chance of precip otherwise could be as early as Friday with another 
potential coastal low, which models vary regarding its track and 
timing. Once again, PoPs have been limited to slight chance for the 
time being. Temperatures should at least moderate Thursday and 
Friday, with most of the area finally getting above the freezing 
mark during Friday.

&&

.AVIATION /00Z SATURDAY THROUGH WEDNESDAY/...
High pressure builds in this evening from the south. Another frontal 
system approaches from the west, passing through Saturday afternoon.

VFR thru tonight. Ceilings begin to lower late Saturday morning
with MVFR or lower possible after after 17Z or so with rain
developing. Rain tapers by 00Z and conditions begin to improve
to VFR overnight into Sun AM.

Light SW/SSW flow this evening becomes S tonight. A few
terminals likely see gusts toward 20 kt develop Sat AM, with
sustained speeds around 10 kt.ts. Winds then drop below 10 kts 
as the rain arrives around 17-18Z, remaining S.

 ...NY Metro (KEWR/KLGA/KJFK/KTEB) TAF Uncertainty... 

Timing of MVFR conds and rain could be off by an hour or two.

Gusts on Saturday may be more occasional.

.OUTLOOK FOR 21Z SATURDAY THROUGH WEDNESDAY...

Sunday: MVFR or lower with snow developing in the afternoon.

Monday: Mainly VFR, MVFR possible in the morning. NW wind gusts near 
20 kt.

Tuesday: VFR. W wind gusts around 20 kt.

Wednesday: VFR.

Detailed information, including hourly TAF wind component forecasts, 
can be found at: https:/www.weather.gov/zny/n90

&&

.MARINE...
A southerly wind gradually increase tonight, especially late out on 
the ocean waters with small craft conditions developing. The small 
craft on the ocean waters will carry through Saturday with gusts to 
25 kt and seas approaching 5ft at times. More marginal small craft 
conditions are expected along the south shore bays of LI. The winds 
then switch to a more W direction with a cold front swinging through 
Saturday night as any small crafts go away Saturday evening, and non-
advisory conditions continue through the day Sunday, although 
visibilities will lower. Winds and seas begin to increase late 
Sunday afternoon and evening with developing low pressure moving 
closer. As the low pulls away Sunday night small craft conditions 
should prevail across all waters with a gusty WNW behind another 
cold front.

SCA conditions persist on all waters Monday with conditions falling 
below advisory levels for most, if not all waters by Tuesday 
morning. For Tuesday through Wednesday, mainly sub-SCA conditions, 
however gusts on the ocean may be close to 25 kt from time to time. 

Persistent winds above 15 kt with a frigid airmass in place may 
result in the potential for freezing spray, especially on the ocean 
where wave heights will be more elevated during Monday into Monday 
night.

&&

.HYDROLOGY...
No hydrologic issues are anticipated for the weekend and into next 
week through Friday.

&&

.OKX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CT...Winter Storm Watch from Sunday afternoon through late Sunday 
     night for CTZ005>007.
NY...Winter Storm Watch from Sunday afternoon through late Sunday 
     night for NYZ067>070.
NJ...Winter Storm Watch from Sunday afternoon through late Sunday 
     night for NJZ002-004-103>105-107.
MARINE...Small Craft Advisory from 4 AM to 6 PM EST Saturday for ANZ350-
     353-355.

&&

$$

SYNOPSIS...JC/JE
NEAR TERM...JC/JE
SHORT TERM...JE
LONG TERM...JC
AVIATION...DR
MARINE...JC/JE
HYDROLOGY...JC/JE
