275 
FXUS61 KOKX 250907
AFDOKX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service New York NY
507 AM EDT Tue Mar 25 2025

.SYNOPSIS...
Weakening low pressure tracking across eastern Canada will send a
surface trough or weak cold front across the area later this 
afternoon into this evening. Low pressure will then move off the 
Mid Atlantic coast tonight, passing well south and east of the 
area into Wednesday. A secondary cold front or trough pushes
through the are late Wednesday. High pressure then builds in from
the southwest on Thursday, passing to the south on Friday as a 
weak disturbance passes to the north. A frontal system is forecast
to impact the area over the weekend into Monday.

&&

.NEAR TERM /UNTIL 6 PM THIS EVENING/...
Still seeing some patchy dense fog across the area this morning
which will be short-lived as a drier westerly flow strengthens
this morning.

A progressive, yet amplifying upper trough will slowly translate
across eastern North America through the middle of the week. At
the surface, a large area of low pressure over eastern Canada 
into Northern New England will slowly weaken while tracking 
east. The latter of which will drag a weak cold front or surface
trough across the area later this afternoon into early this 
evening. The boundary will be dry, but more importantly W/SW 
winds will become gusty this morning into this afternoon, with 
gusts up to 30 mph. A few higher gusts will be possible. Went 
closer to the NBM90 for wind gusts over land. 

As for temperatures, it will be a milder day with highs in the 
lower to mid 50s. NBM box and whisker plots show a high confidence
temperature forecast with only a few degrees difference between
the 25th and 75th percentiles. 

&&

.SHORT TERM /6 PM THIS EVENING THROUGH THURSDAY/...
The last several days the forecast area has been on the northern
periphery of low pressure that develops just off the Mid Atlantic
coast tonight, passing to the south and east of the area into 
Wednesday. Trend has been decreasing chances of precipitation 
and used a model consensus which keeps chances offshore. The NBM
still reflecting some older guidance may be taking a bit longer
to catch up maintaining low chances along the coast. Winds will
subside this evening with some cloud cover working into coastal
areas tonight, particularly Long Island being closer to offshore 
system. Otherwise, high pressure noses in from the SW on Wednesday
with a cooler day as the area undergoes a period of cold advection
with the approaching upper trough. 

Lows tonight will range from around 30 well inland, to 35 to 40
along the coast. Expect it to be a bit colder in the Pine 
Barrens region of LI. Highs on Wednesday with plenty of sun 
will be in the upper 40s to lower 50s. These values are close to
normal for late March.

A secondary cold front or trough works across the area late
Wednesday afternoon/early evening with winds veering to the NW
and continued weak cold advection. Temperatures Wednesday night
into Thursday will remain around normal. Also, cant rule out a 
brief shower and/or sprinkle with the front. High pressure will
then nose back in from the SW on Thursday with winds backing 
more westerly.

&&

.LONG TERM /THURSDAY NIGHT THROUGH MONDAY/...
A weak warm front Thursday night provides some lift for perhaps
a stray sprinkle or flurry. Highs 55-60 behind the front for 
Friday.

A weak cold front then passes through from the north with more
of a zonal flow aloft, most likely during Friday night. Models 
differ regarding the location of the stalled front, making the 
temperature and precip chance forecasts relatively lower in 
confidence through at least Sunday. It would appear that the 
cold front stalls not to far to our south through the weekend 
before moving back north as a warm front Sunday night into 
Monday with perhaps some help from a low level jet as low 
pressure shifts into the eastern Great Lakes Region. A cold 
front would then follow during Monday afternoon or night when a 
shortwave helps the flow aloft become more amplified.

Went with 20-30% chance of rain for Friday night through Sunday
as overrunning remains a constant threat. Chances then increase
to 50% Sunday night through Monday evening, accounting for both
warm and cold front passages as the center of the approaching 
storm system draws nearer.

As for temperatures, NBM box and whisker plots for Saturday
through Monday continue to show 10 to 20 degree spreads between
the 25th and 75th percentiles, most notably for the high 
temperatures. As previously mentioned, will go with the scenario
that the stalled front remains to our south through Sunday, 
which aligns with climatology for this time of the year as the 
parent low center of the upcoming storm is still well off to our
west and fairly weak through this time. This puts us on the 
cooler side of the envelope for both Saturday and Sunday and 
goes along the lines of the deterministic NBM forecast which is 
cooler than its ensemble median and closer to the 25th 
percentile. Then with a better chance of the warm front moving 
north through the area, warmer temperatures on Monday versus the
weekend, but they could be tempered by potential cloud cover 
and rainfall. Deterministic and median NBM are at least in 
better agreement for temperatures on Monday.

&&

.AVIATION /09Z TUESDAY THROUGH SATURDAY/...
A surface trough remains over the area today. Weak low pressure
passes well to our southeast tonight.

Improvement to VFR has occurred at most terminals early this morning 
with just some MVFR vsbys at KISP and LIFR vsbys at KSWF. 
Improvement at these two terminals are expected by 11z or so, back 
to VFR. Otherwise, VFR is expected through the end of the TAF period.

Light and variable or a light NW flow through about 12z. Then W/SW 
flow today with gusts to around 25 kt developing 12z to 14z. 
Occasional gusts up to 30 kt are possible. Winds become light from 
the NW tonight.

 ...NY Metro (KEWR/KLGA/KJFK/KTEB) TAF Uncertainty... 

Occasional gusts around 30 kt are possible today, mainly in the
mid to late morning hours.

.OUTLOOK FOR 06Z WEDNESDAY THROUGH SATURDAY...

Wednesday: VFR. Afternoon W/NW wind gusts 15-20 kt.

Thursday: VFR.

Friday: VFR. W wind gusts 15-20 kt.

Saturday: Mainly VFR. A slight chance of light rain. E wind gusts 15-
20 kt.

Detailed information, including hourly TAF wind component forecasts, 
can be found at: https:/www.weather.gov/zny/n90

&&

.MARINE...
SCA remains up for the ocean waters today primarily for high 
seas from a SSE swell. There could also be near shore gusts 
across all waters around 25 kt, but this should be more 
occasional than prevailing. This is due to better heating and 
thus mixing over land area today. Seas subside from west to east
late this afternoon into this evening with sub-SCA conditions 
across all waters later tonight into Thursday in a westerly 
flow.

Sub advisory conditions through Saturday with a relatively weak
pressure gradient through the period. There are however a few 
periods up through Friday when gusts could be near 25kt on the 
ocean waters as the gradient strengthens a little.

&&

.FIRE WEATHER...
After the region received rainfall on Monday, conditions will
dry out quickly today with gusty W/SW winds. Minimum RH values
will generally range from 30 to 40 percent this afternoon. Winds
will then drop off tonight and be lighter on Wednesday, but 
minimum RH values will be similar. Areas north and west of the
NYC metro will see a more elevated threat for brush fire spread
due to drier fuels. At this time, land managers have not advocated
for a special fire weather products.

&&

.HYDROLOGY...
No hydrologic impacts are expected through the upcoming weekend.

&&

.OKX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CT...None.
NY...None.
NJ...None.
MARINE...Small Craft Advisory until 11 PM EDT this evening for ANZ350.
     Small Craft Advisory until 4 PM EDT this afternoon for ANZ353-
     355.

&&

$$

SYNOPSIS...JC/DW
NEAR TERM...DW
SHORT TERM...DW
LONG TERM...JC
AVIATION...BC
MARINE...JC/DW
FIRE WEATHER...
HYDROLOGY...JC/DW
