257 
FXUS61 KOKX 191156
AFDOKX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service New York NY
756 AM EDT Tue Aug 19 2025

.SYNOPSIS...
High pressure remains in control today then shifts offshore and 
weakens tonight into Wednesday. A weakening frontal system 
approaches Wednesday. Hurricane Erin will pass well to the
southeast from Thursday into Friday, bringing indirect but 
potentially significant impacts along the shoreline. 
High pressure will return by late week, then a cold front will 
approach from the west from Sunday into Monday. Please refer to
NHC forecasts for further information on Hurricane Erin.

&&

.NEAR TERM /THROUGH TONIGHT/...
High pressure will be in control today and will weaken as it
shifts offshore tonight. Flow aloft stays mostly zonal, with a 
slight lowering of heights tonight.

Stuck close to the NBM through the near term. The orientation 
of the high will allow for the E/SE flow to persist. Cooler and
drier conditions will continue as well, with highs similar to 
yesterday and dewpoints in the 50s.

Cloud increase tonight and winds likely stay up so lows tonight
will be a few degrees warmer than last night, upper 50s across
the interior and 60s elsewhere.

&&

.SHORT TERM /WEDNESDAY THROUGH THURSDAY NIGHT/...
Key Points:

* Increasingly high surf and life threatening rip currents.

As high pressure weakens and moves offshore, a weakening frontal
system approaches from the west as Hurricane Erin passes well 
southeast.

The main story in the short term are the indirect impacts from
Hurricane Erin with increasingly high surf and life threatening
rip currents. See Tides/Coastal Flooding section below.

Otherwise, showers are looking increasingly likely for
Wednesday. Guidance has trended higher with QPF and duration and
in turn the NBM and latest forecast has done the same. While the
frontal system weakens as it approaches there will be a
shortwave moving through as well as help from a right entrance
region of an upper level jet. Confidence is low at this time but
isolated flash flooding can not be ruled out. The 00z HREF does
have isolated areas with a 10% chance of 3 inches in 3 hours. 
If this trends higher then confidence will be higher in 
excessive rainfall.

Thereafter, a gusty E/NE flow picks up as Erin passes offshore.
Widespread gusts of 20 to 25 mph are expected, with up to 35 
mph along the coast and across Long Island.

Please refer to National Hurricane Center forecasts for further
information on Erin.

&&

.LONG TERM /FRIDAY THROUGH MONDAY/...
Key Points:

* Indirect but potentially significant impacts from Hurricane
  Erin continue into Friday morning. 

* Life threatening high surf and rip currents expected. 

* Widespread beach flooding, dune erosion and localized
  overwashes along the ocean beachfront possible. 

As Hurricane Erin passes well to the SE on Fri, strong N-NE flow
via its expanding and very large wind field will still at its 
peak early Fri morning, with gusts 25-35 mph in coastal areas 
(highest across the forks of Long Island). These winds will be
diminishing through the day. Other indirect impacts will be 
felt along the coastline; see the Tides/Coastal Flooding section
for details. 

Ridging at the sfc/aloft will build in after Erin's departure,
with mostly clear skies and a flow shifting from N to SE-S by 
Fri night. As this ridge moves east another frontal system will 
approach on Sunday and pass through on Monday, with chance of 
showers and possibly a tstm.

&&

.AVIATION /12Z TUESDAY THROUGH SATURDAY/...
High pressure to the north will pass east of New England today.

VFR with ENE flow 5-10 kt becoming SE around 10 kt this 
afternoon. Winds diminish this evening. Cigs lower tonight 
becoming MVFR late at the NYC metros. 

 ...NY Metro (KEWR/KLGA/KJFK/KTEB) TAF Uncertainty...

Timing of wind shifts today may require AMD. 

.OUTLOOK FOR 12Z WEDNESDAY THROUGH SATURDAY...

Wednesday: MVFR cond possible in the morning, IFR possible in
the afternoon at night with showers and embedded tstms. Rain
could be heavy at times. ENE winds G20kt along the coast late 
at night. 

Thursday: Chance of showers in the morning with MVFR/IFR cond 
still possible. NE winds increasing to 15G20-25kt along the 
coast. 

Friday: VFR. NE-N winds 15G20-25kt in the morning. 

Saturday: VFR. 

Detailed information, including hourly TAF wind component
forecasts, can be found at: https:/www.weather.gov/zny/n90

&&

.MARINE...
The Small Craft Advisory on the ocean waters has been extended
into Thursday as seas remain elevated. The Advisory will 
likely need to be extended and expanded as swells from Erin 
continue to move into the area along with 25 to 30 kt gusts 
Thursday into Friday. Gusts on the ocean waters could just touch
35 kt as well. Seas build through mid week and peak Thursday 
night into Friday morning at 11-17 ft with a SE swell component 
of 9-11 ft @ 15-17 sec. Seas 5-10 ft also likely on the Sound E 
of Orient out to Montauk. These seas will take some time to 
subside, only falling to to 9-10 ft on the ocean by sunset Fri 
night and still at 5-6 ft Sat night. Seas on the Sound E of Orient
will still be as high as 5 ft N of Montauk late Fri night into 
Sat morning. 

Please refer to National Hurricane Center forecasts for further
information on Erin.

&&

.HYDROLOGY...
Confidence is low at this time, but localized flash flooding 
can not be ruled out on Wednesday. The WPC has outlined the area
in a marginal risk for excessive rainfall.

&&

.TIDES/COASTAL FLOODING...
A High Surf Advisory and High Rip Current risk are in effect for
all Atlantic beaches and will likely continue to be extended
with future updates through the end of the week.

Life-threatening surf and rip currents expected for the rest of
this week as building long period swells from Erin continue, 
peaking Thu/Fri. Surf heights could reach 10-15 ft from Thu 
afternoon and continuing into early Fri morning, as large, very 
long period swells (9-11 ft @ 15-17 sec) arrive nearly head on 
at the beaches. 

The threat for beach flooding, beach erosion and escarpment and 
areas of dune erosion will increase with successive high tides 
Tue thru Thu night. Widespread areas of dune erosion are likely 
with localized overwashes during the Thu evening and Fri morning
high tides, This high surf will be combined with elevated water
levels as we approach a new moon.

Surge guidance continues to play catch-up to the potential 
coastal flood situation. A blend of bias-corrected PETSS 50% 
exceedance, ETSS, and STOFS indicates widespread minor and 
locally moderate flooding with the Thu night/Fri morning high 
tide cycles. PETSS 10% exceedance and even a blend of 10%/50% 
exceedances are both higher, indicating worst-case potential for 
widespread moderate flooding with the Thu evening and/or Fri 
morning high tide cycles.

&&

.OKX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CT...None.
NY...High Risk for Rip Currents through Wednesday evening for NYZ075-080-
     081-178-179.
     High Surf Advisory from 6 AM Wednesday to 6 PM EDT Thursday 
     for NYZ075-080-081-178-179.
NJ...None.
MARINE...Small Craft Advisory until 6 PM EDT Thursday for ANZ350-353-
     355.

&&

$$

SYNOPSIS...BG/JT
NEAR TERM...JT
SHORT TERM...JT
LONG TERM...BG/JT
AVIATION...BG
MARINE...BG/JT
HYDROLOGY...BG/JT
TIDES/COASTAL FLOODING...BG/JT
