613 
FXUS61 KOKX 200012
AFDOKX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service New York NY
712 PM EST Sun Jan 19 2025

.SYNOPSIS...
Deepening low pressure off the Mid Atlantic coast will quickly
pass to the east of the area tonight and up into the Canadian 
Maritimes by daybreak Monday. An arctic airmass will then build 
in through mid week with high pressure building in from the west. 
High pressure moves overhead Wednesday night into Thursday and 
then offshore thereafter. A frontal system passes offshore Friday 
before another high builds in from the west for next weekend.

&&

.NEAR TERM /UNTIL 6 AM MONDAY MORNING/...
No changes to winter hazards. Snowfall minor increase for 
interior NE NJ, Lower Hudson Valley and interior SW CT. 
Thinking there is potential for some snowfall totals near 8 
inches within this region. Also made a slight downward 
adjustment towards southern coastline on Long Island and South
Fork of Long Island, mostly in the 3 to 4 inch range.

Steadiest snow moving into Lower Hudson Valley, Northeast NJ 
and NYC Metro in association with the upper trough. This will 
begin to expand east over the next couple of hours across Long 
Island and Southern CT as low pressure continues to deepen off 
the Mid Atlantic. Some sleet has been reported across parts of
the coastal sections mixing in within the snow and can be
expected early this evening. Low is deepening offshore and a few
sparse reports of lightning have also been reported.

The low will pass quickly to the east this evening and up into 
the Canadian Maritimes by daybreak Monday. Much of the area will
see about a 6-8hr window of mainly snow, with 2 to 4 hours of 
it falling in the moderate to occasionally heavy intensity this
evening.

12Z HREF has 50 to 80 percent probabilities of inch per hour 
rates this evening, but only for an hour or two. Also, portions 
of eastern LI have mixed with rain at the start. The key to 
snowfall amounts will be how quickly temperatures drop as a 
strengthening northerly flow draws colder air down into the 
region. This will especially be critical along the coast where 
temperatures topped out around 40 this afternoon. Liquid 
equivalent amounts on average area expected to range from 0.4 to
0.6" with some localized enhancements. Ratios will vary quite a
bit at the start with temperatures in 30s, but at some point 
should get into the 15-10:1 range as temperatures fall. Expect 
snowfall amounts of 3 to 5 inches along the coast and 5 to 8 
inches across the interior. Still no changes are planned to the
hazards at this time. The snow will become light and end around
midnight for NYC and points north and west and 3 to 4 am far 
eastern areas. 

Temperatures will tumble into the upper teens to around 20 by 
daybreak with N-NW winds gusting 20 to 25 mph, possibly up to 
30 mph. Wind Chill values fall into the single digits overnight
and possibly as low as zero for the interior. These values fall
short of Cold Weather Advisory (-5F at the coast and -10F 
inland).

&&

.SHORT TERM /6 AM MONDAY MORNING THROUGH MONDAY NIGHT/...
Low pressure strengthens as it moves northeast into the Canadian 
Maritimes with strong high pressure moving in from the west. This 
tight pressure gradient will keep a gusty westerly flow, with cold 
aid advection increasing.

Weather will be dry and very cold. Temperatures expected to be well 
below normal.

Arctic airmass encompasses the area with NW winds ushering in colder 
air. There will be strong cold air advection. Any leftover snowmelt
will refreeze and lead to slippery conditions for any untreated
surfaces. Temperatures forecast in single digits to lower teens
for morning with wind chills several degrees colder. Max temperatures
forecast only in the low to upper 20s. Went below MOS for the 
high temperatures. With gusty westerly flow continuing, wind 
chills will be at most, mainly within the lower teens on Monday.

For Monday night, the cold air advection continues. The westerly 
gusty flow continues as well. Forecast lows are in the single digits 
to lower teens for much of the area. The minimum wind chills are 
mostly below zero with some locations near -5 to -10 degrees 
towards early Tuesday morning.

&&

.LONG TERM /TUESDAY THROUGH SUNDAY/...
Main upper jet remains south of the region Tuesday through Friday, 
with then a return to more zonal flow.  Main trough in mid levels 
remains over the Northeast Tuesday into Wednesday and then another 
trough develops, moves in latter half of the week but more zonal for 
next weekend.

Looks like the core of this arctic airmass will be across the local 
region Tuesday through Wednesday. Strong high pressure will continue 
to slowly build in from the west and move overhead Wednesday night 
into Thursday. Gusty westerly flow Tuesday will subside Tuesday 
night into Wednesday. Winds become nearly calm Wednesday night and 
change direction to more SW.

The strong high pressure will still have its core to the west of the 
region Tuesday night into Wednesday but a passing wave of low 
pressure far offshore may result in brief snow to far southeast 
parts of the region. Some models are indicating the far southeast 
portions of the region on the northern fringe of the precipitation 
from the low. Chances are very low for any snow and expecting mainly 
dry conditions to prevail.

Forecast highs are only in the teens Tuesday and get closer to 20 
for Wednesday. Max wind chills Tuesday mostly in single digits and 
then more in the teens for Wednesday. Lows Tuesday night mostly in 
the single digits and then for Wednesday night interior is mostly in 
single digits with coast mostly near 10. Minimum wind chills Tuesday 
night below zero for most areas, and a greater fraction getting near 
-5 to -10 degrees, locally near -15 degrees for isolated locations.

Low pressure system passes offshore Thursday night and then farther 
out into the Atlantic Friday into next weekend. There could be some 
snow across far southeastern sections of the region, just a slight 
chance, with otherwise dry conditions continuing.

Across the local area, another high pressure area builds in from the 
west for Friday into next weekend. Mainly dry weather conditions are 
expected. 

The airmass is forecast to moderate Thursday and thereafter into 
next weekend. High temperatures forecast return to mostly mid to 
upper 20s much of the area Thursday, but southeast sections lower 
30s. Then forecast highs Friday lower 30s areawide and then rising 
more within the 30s for next weekend.

&&

.AVIATION /00Z MONDAY THROUGH FRIDAY/...
Low pressure develops along the Mid Atlantic coast, passing 
southeast of the area tonight. 

MVFR to LIFR conditions will continue to deteriorate this 
evening to IFR/LIFR in snow. The snow may come down moderate to
briefly heavy at times, with isolated visibilities of 1/4 SM in
any of the brief heavy snow. Additionally, lightning has been 
detected across the forecast area, so a passing thunderstorm 
cannot be ruled out. The snow tapers off 03Z-06Z, with VFR 
thereafter. Winds veer to the N then NE today with speeds 
generally 10-12kt. Winds become NW after 22-00Z. Gusts are 
expected tonight and Monday with gusts in the lower and middle 
20kt range.

Expected Snowfall Accumulations:

NYC terminals, BDR, ISP: 3-6" HPN: 4-8" SWF: 5-8"

 ...NY Metro (KEWR/KLGA/KJFK/KTEB) TAF Uncertainty... 

Amendments likely for changing flight categories in snow. 
Gusts of 25 to around 30 kt. A gust to 35 kt cannot be ruled
out, especially for terminals that experience thunder.

.OUTLOOK FOR 00Z TUESDAY THROUGH FRIDAY...

Monday night: VFR. NW winds diminishing with gusts up to 25 kt
early in the evening.

Tuesday: VFR. W wind gusts around 20 kt.

Wednesday: Chance of MVFR or lower in -SN, particularly coastal 
terminals.

Thursday: VFR.

Friday: Mainly VFR, Chance of MVFR in light snow.

Detailed information, including hourly TAF wind component forecasts, 
can be found at: https:/www.weather.gov/zny/n90

&&

.MARINE...
Deepening low pressure passes to the east of the waters this
evening and then up into the Canadian Maritimes by daybreak.
Arctic high pressure will begin to build in from west. This will
is a strong N/NW flow overnight with gusts on all waters
25-30kt in Monday. 

SCA conditions continue on the ocean Monday night. Wind gusts 
will be marginal for SCA for non-ocean marine zones Monday 
night. Some lingering SCA conditions possible on the ocean 
Tuesday with otherwise mainly sub-SCA conditions Tuesday onward 
through Friday. Some potential SCA gusts on the ocean Tuesday 
night and Friday night.

Freezing spray potential for some of the waters Monday through 
Monday night.

&&

.HYDROLOGY...
No hydrologic issues are anticipated through Saturday.

&&

.OKX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CT...Winter Storm Warning until 4 AM EST Monday for CTZ005>008.
     Winter Weather Advisory until 4 AM EST Monday for CTZ009>012.
NY...Winter Storm Warning until 4 AM EST Monday for NYZ067>070.
     Winter Weather Advisory until 4 AM EST Monday for NYZ071>075-
     078>081-176>179.
NJ...Winter Storm Warning until 4 AM EST Monday for NJZ002-004-
     103>105-107.
     Winter Weather Advisory until 4 AM EST Monday for NJZ006-106-
     108.
MARINE...Small Craft Advisory until 6 PM EST Monday for ANZ331-332-335-
     338-340-345.
     Small Craft Advisory until 7 AM EST Tuesday for ANZ350-353-355.

&&

$$

SYNOPSIS...DW
NEAR TERM...JM/DW
SHORT TERM...JM/DW
LONG TERM...JMC/JM
AVIATION...JP
MARINE...JM/DW
HYDROLOGY...JM/DW
