343 
FXUS61 KOKX 111113
AFDOKX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service New York NY
713 AM EDT Sun May 11 2025

.SYNOPSIS...
High pressure remains in control through Sunday night. The high
then moves offshore on Monday into Monday night. Unsettled 
weather returns much of next week as a slow, broad low pressure 
system approaches from the south Tuesday and lingers through 
Thursday. Another frontal system may move through next weekend.

&&

.NEAR TERM /THROUGH TONIGHT/...
High pressure at the surface continues to build in from the 
northwest today, settling and centering itself over the area 
tonight. At the same time, a ridging pattern continues to push 
eastward towards us, leading to heights rising aloft through the day 
today and into tonight. 

Mainly sunny skies are expected today into tonight. We'll be under a 
light N/NW flow. Highs today should be able to get into the upper-
60s to lower-70s. Under clear skies and light flow, radiational 
cooling should be very efficient tonight. Lows will be in the 
low/mid-50s while interior locations should drop into the mid/low-
40s. The LI Pine Barrens may even drop into the upper-30s.

&&

.SHORT TERM /MONDAY THROUGH MONDAY NIGHT/...
The pattern shifts a little on Monday. High pressure pushes offshore 
as an upper-level low approaches from the southeastern US. 

This leads to southerly flow returning, bringing moisture back up 
with it. While Monday will start sunny, clouds will gradually 
increase through the day and into the night as high pressure loses 
its hold to the approaching low. Showers may begin, from the 
southwest, just before daybreak Tuesday as the low nears with ample 
moisture now in place.  

Temperatures will be in the low/mid-70s for many Monday afternoon. 
Due to southerly flow returning, the ocean may lead to highs limited 
in the mid/upper-60s for areas under more of a marine influence such 
as Long Island, coastal Connecticut, and southeastern
Connecticut.

&&

.LONG TERM /TUESDAY THROUGH SATURDAY/...
High pressure is positioned to the east of the area on Tuesday as a 
large upper level cut-off low over the Southern US begins to 
approach the area from the south. The reintegration of this mid-
level energy into the mean flow will allow several waves of energy 
to move through the area resulting in shower activity for the better 
part of next week. The surface disturbance moves east by Friday 
which may result in a day with mostly dry conditions, however, with 
the upper trough overhead, widely scattered shower still can't be 
ruled out. 

By the weekend, a digging trough with an embedded shortwave moves 
into the Great Lakes region. This will allow a surface frontal 
system to develop and bring a cold front through the area sometime 
over the weekend resulting in additional showers once again. 

Given the uncertain nature of the cloud cover toward the end of the 
week with the upper trough remaining generally overhead, 
temperatures may move in either direction. Otherwise, temperatures 
through the long term are generally around average with highs each 
day in the upper 60s to low 70s Tuesday through Thursday. 
Temperatures are expected to increase a bit on Friday and into 
Saturday but this will ultimately depend on the evolution of the 
upper trough and incoming frontal system.

&&

.AVIATION /11Z SUNDAY THROUGH THURSDAY/...
VFR as high pressure gradually builds in from the northwest
today.

Light and variable flow this morning becomes NNW and increases 
to near 10kt by 14Z. Some gusts up to 20 kt east of the NYC 
metros, and an occasional gust 15-18 kt from the metros 
north/west remain possible today. Absent any thin cirrus, clear 
skies prevail. Light and variable winds likely again tonight
becoming SE by Monday morning as the high pushes offshore.

 ...NY Metro (KEWR/KLGA/KJFK/KTEB) TAF Uncertainty...

No unscheduled AMD expected. A few infrequent gusts to 20kt
possible today.

.OUTLOOK FOR 12Z MONDAY THROUGH THURSDAY...

Monday: VFR.

Tuesday: MVFR cigs possible especially from the NYC metros 
west. 

Tuesday night: Low stratus/fog with IFR cond possible especially
near the coast at KJFK/KISP/KHPN/KBDR/KGON, otherwise MVFR cond
expected. Chance of showers.

Wednesday and Thursday: MVFR cond expected, IFR or lower cond
possible at times especially late night and early morning. 
Chance of showers. 

Detailed information, including hourly TAF wind component
forecasts, can be found at: https:/www.weather.gov/zny/n90

&&

.MARINE...
Relatively light winds with a lack of significant swell leads 
to sub-advisory conditions through Monday night.

Sub-SCA conditions are expected on all waters through Tuesday 
evening. Marginal SCA conditions become possible on the ocean early 
Wednesday morning under an increasing S/SE flow as the pressure 
gradient tightens with the approach of a weak frontal system from 
the southwest. Gusts may approach 25kt on the ocean with wave 
heights near 5-6 feet possible. Sub-SCA conditions are then expected 
by late Thursday.

&&

.HYDROLOGY...
There are no hydrologic concerns through through the end of next
week.

&&

.OKX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CT...None.
NY...None.
NJ...None.
MARINE...None.

&&

$$

SYNOPSIS...BR/MW
NEAR TERM...BR
SHORT TERM...BR
LONG TERM...MW
AVIATION...MW
MARINE...BR/MW
HYDROLOGY...BR/MW
