823 
FXUS61 KOKX 122228
AFDOKX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service New York NY
628 PM EDT Wed Mar 12 2025

.SYNOPSIS...
High pressure remains in control through Friday. As the high 
retreats further out into the Atlantic, a warm front lifts through 
the region Saturday, before a strong cold front moves through the 
into Sunday night. Behind it, high pressure returns early next week.

&&

.NEAR TERM /UNTIL 6 AM THURSDAY MORNING/...
Increased PoPs slightly (20 to 25 percent) across far interior 
thru this evening as weak disturbance passes to the north and 
produces a few rain or snow showers. QPF is light and limited 
impacts, if any, expected with this activity. Forecast on track.

High pressure will remain north of the region today. Meanwhile, weak 
low pressure passes south of the region. A weak shortwave will pass 
north of the region. The system lacks moisture and some of the 12z 
guidance is drier than its earlier runs. Have lowered POPs a bit, so 
only looking at slight chance POPs for some rain/snow showers, 
mainly across the Lower Hudson Valley and Southern CT. Otherwise, 
expect a mostly cloudy night with an easterly flow. Lows tonight 
will fall into the 30s.

&&

.SHORT TERM /6 AM THURSDAY MORNING THROUGH THURSDAY NIGHT/...
High pressure north of the region gradually slides eastward 
Thursday and Thursday night. Weak low pressure continues to pass
south of the area. The high will keep conditions dry through 
the short term. It will remain mostly cloudy. The cloud cover 
combined with an easterly flow, expect temperatures to remain in
the 40s.

&&

.LONG TERM /FRIDAY THROUGH WEDNESDAY/...
High pressure drifting off southeast Canada remains in control 
locally to start the period on Friday. Along with weak ridging 
aloft, conditions likely remain dry into Friday night. 
Thereafter, the high drifts farther out into the Atlantic as a 
warm front approaches from the south. A more unsettled pattern 
then sets up this weekend as deepening low pressure cuts into 
the Upper Great Lakes with a mid level trough amplifying as it 
shifts east. This lifts the associated warm front thru the local
area Saturday, and strengthening southerly flow helps stream in
moisture from the Gulf into Sunday, with PWATs progged as high 
as 1.5 inches, or about as high as recorded this time of year. 
This will pose the potential for a period of heavy downpours 
ahead of the attendant cold frontal passage, though some 
lingering differences in guidance timing and placement that will
need to be resolved before getting too detailed. Conditions 
should generally start to dry out into Monday as the system 
exits and high pressure builds in from the South.

Temperatures remain above average through the period. In fact, 
most should remain above the freezing mark into mid next week. 
Mild overnight lows for Saturday night into Sunday, especially 
away from the coast, as the area will be warm sectored. Low 
temperatures will only drop into the 50s for these locations, 
and upper 40s near the coast thanks to the relatively cooler 
waters. Temperatures remain above average for the rest of the 
long term with highs in the 50s and 60s. Cooler conditions are 
expected along the coast once again.

&&

.AVIATION /00Z THURSDAY THROUGH MONDAY/...
High pressure settles across Northern New England into this evening. 
A weak wave of low pressure approaches and lingers nearby to the 
southwest and south through Thursday morning.

Mainly VFR through the period, although there remains a chance of 
MVFR conditions across northern most terminals tonight, and for the 
30 hr TAF terminals late on Thursday. The highest chance will be 
across northern most terminals overnight into Thursday morning 
(KSWF, HPN, and KGON). Currently confidence of MVFR ceilings 
occurrence remains below average.

Winds prevail from the E and SE at most terminals through the 
evening push. Wind speeds will be at or just above 10 kt initially, 
will then lighten a little tonight, before getting back to near 10 
kt at most terminals Thursday.


 ...NY Metro (KEWR/KLGA/KJFK/KTEB) TAF Uncertainty...

There may be amendments for the possibility of MVFR ceilings on 
Thursday.

.OUTLOOK FOR 18Z THURSDAY THROUGH MONDAY...

Thursday afternoon: VFR, along with pockets of MVFR possible late. 
Winds E 7-12 kt.

Friday: Chance of sub VFR early, otherwise VFR.

Saturday: MVFR possible. Slight chance of rain showers. S gusts 20-
30 kt Saturday night. 

Sunday: Patchy sub VFR possible with chance of showers. S winds 15-
20g25-35 kt.

Sunday night: More widespread and steadier rain possible Sunday 
night with widespread IFR expected. S winds 10-15g20-30 kt, becoming 
SW and diminishing late.

Monday: Sub VFR possible in AM, otherwise becoming VFR. 

Detailed information, including hourly TAF wind component forecasts, 
can be found at: https:/www.weather.gov/zny/n90

&&

.MARINE...
Seas on the ocean will remain between 4-6 ft through Thursday night, 
mainly due to an onshore flow and a swell. Sub-advisory conditions 
on the non-ocean waters are expected through Thursday night. 

Ocean seas are expected to lower below SCA criteria Friday, before 
increasing once again late Saturday with strengthening southerly 
flow. SCA conditions return by Sunday with 25 to 30 kt gusts 
developing on all waters. Gales possible as well, especially the 
ocean, Sunday afternoon and Sunday night. Ocean seas build as high 
10 to 13 ft during this time. Winds should lower below 25 kt on all 
waters by Monday morning, but ocean seas linger at or above 5 ft 
into Tuesday.

&&

.HYDROLOGY...
No hydrologic impacts expected into the beginning of this 
weekend. There is potential for heavy downpours ahead of a 
frontal passage Sunday and Sunday night. There remains 
uncertainty into the duration and placement, but the possibility
of nuisance flooding cannot be ruled out.

&&

.OKX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CT...None.
NY...None.
NJ...None.
MARINE...Small Craft Advisory until 6 AM EDT Friday for ANZ350-353-355.

&&

$$

SYNOPSIS...BC/DR
NEAR TERM...BC/DR
SHORT TERM...BC
LONG TERM...DR
AVIATION...JE
MARINE...BC/DR
HYDROLOGY...BC/DR
