062 
FXUS61 KOKX 141402
AFDOKX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service New York NY
1002 AM EDT Mon Apr 14 2025

.SYNOPSIS...
High pressure nosing in from the south weakens through the day. A 
cold front moves through tonight into Tuesday morning, with a 
secondary front passing through Tuesday night. High pressure starts 
to gradually build in starting Wednesday. High pressure passes to 
the south Thursday and pushes offshore Thursday night. Another 
frontal system approaches the region Friday and affects from Friday 
night through Saturday night. High pressure returns for Sunday.

&&

.NEAR TERM /UNTIL 6 PM THIS EVENING/...
The broken line of showers and sprinkles has continued to
progress east. Much of the activity is not reaching the ground
with reflectivity returns mainly due to some rain showers aloft.
However some reporting station over Eastern PA and Western NJ
have reported a few sprinkles and very light shower activity
while bases remain high, at 8 to 10 kft. Thus have added 
scattered sprinkle mention into a portion of the early 
afternoon. Otherwise no changes / adjustments. This activity as 
it runs into ridging should more or less dissipate as it pivots 
through with just a some sprinkles or a very light shower or 
two. Thus did not adjust PoPs as measurable rain is still not 
anticipated.

With ridging at the surface and aloft we will still have a good
deal of mid and high level clouds around. As far as temps, it
will feel more like spring with temperatures back up in the
middle to upper 60s (a few degrees warmer than what is normal 
for mid April) and light winds.

Given previous cool bias from the NBM on similar spring regimes,
went closer to the NBM 90th percentile. Additionally, how 
thick/expansive any cloud cover ends up being will likely affect 
the highs a few degrees in either direction.

&&

.SHORT TERM /6 PM THIS EVENING THROUGH WEDNESDAY NIGHT/...
Heights start lowering tonight as an upper level low approaches. An 
associated parent surface low will be tracking through southern 
Canada, with a cold front draped down into the eastern US. As this 
front approaches it looks to become occluded to our north with the 
potential for the triple point to pass through the area. This is 
evident in gradients in model moisture fields. This frontal system 
will spark severe weather in the Ohio Valley today, but by the time 
this activity gets to our area it will likely be just rain showers. 
This is due to the time of day and lack of any significant 
instability. There is however very little elevated CAPE, so a rumble 
of thunder can not be completely ruled out.

Heights continue lowering as the mid and upper level trough axis 
gets closer on Tuesday. With cooling aloft, instability increases 
through the day. This set up usually leads to isolated to scattered 
shower activity and the CAMs are agreeing with that. Looking at
model soundings, steep lapse rates and plenty of dry air below 
the cloud layer can be seen. This suggests that any stronger 
showers could bring down gusty winds and potentially produce graupel.
A rumble of thunder can also not be ruled out, but with low 
confidence have continued to leave it out of the forecast for 
now. Outside of gusty winds from showers, synoptically the
sustained winds and gusts increase through the day on Tuesday. 
Expecting gusts up to 30 go 35 mph.

High pressure starts to gradually build in on Wednesday. With the 
colder airmass over the region, highs look to only reach the low 
50s. Gusty winds are expected through the afternoon before they 
start to decrease.

&&

.LONG TERM /THURSDAY THROUGH SUNDAY/...
Dry conditions continue for Thursday as an upper level east of the 
area continues to slowly moves east while a building ridge over the 
Great Lakes region and southern Canada moves toward the area. At the 
surface, high pressure to the west of the region slides southwest 
and pushes off the Mid-Atlantic Coast Thursday night which allows a 
warm front to lift north Friday night. This will be be the next 
chance for precipitation. However, only light amounts of rain for 
Friday night are expected at this time. The associated cold front is 
expected to move through on Saturday night and high pressure builds 
in behind it for Sunday.

With a building ridge moving into the region Thursday and a warm 
front lifting north Friday night, a warming trend through the period 
is expected. Temperatures in the 50s and 60s on Thursday will rise 
into the 60s and 70s by Saturday for most areas. Cooler conditions 
are expected along coastal areas. Cold air advection after the 
passage of the cold front will bring temperatures back down to more 
seasonable levels for Sunday.

&&

.AVIATION /14Z MONDAY THROUGH FRIDAY/...
Weak high pressure builds from the west. A cold front moves 
through tonight.
 
VFR conditions expected through the day today. MVFR to IFR
conditions expected tonight (after 06Z) associated with the cold
front. Rain will start around around 03Z for metro terminals. 

W winds less than 10 kt should gradually shift to the SW by
later this morning, and increase to around 10 kt (10 to 15 kt
for KJFK). Winds shift more to the S later this afternoon as
sea breezes affect most terminals. KEWR and KTEB may shift more
to the SE late this afternoon and early this evening. 




 ...NY Metro (KEWR/KLGA/KJFK/KTEB) TAF Uncertainty... 

No unscheduled amendments expected. Late day, after 20Z, sea breeze 
possible. KTEB and KEWR may shift more to the SE late this 
afternoon and evening

.OUTLOOK FOR 12Z TUESDAY THROUGH FRIDAY...

Tuesday: VFR. W winds G20-25kt in the afternoon.

Wednesday: VFR. WNW winds G25-30kt. 

Thursday: VFR. NW winds G15-20kt.

Friday: VFR. Chance of showers at night. 

Detailed information, including hourly TAF wind component forecasts, 
can be found at: https:/www.weather.gov/zny/n90

&&

.MARINE...
Sub-SCA conditions are expected through Tuesday morning. Winds ramp 
up Tuesday afternoon and a Small Craft Advisory has been issued for 
all waters starting at 2PM Tuesday and going through 10AM Wednesday 
(and will likely need to be extended through Wednesday). Wind gusts 
are expected to reach 25 to 30 kt on all waters. There may be a 
brief lull for a few hours around 11PM Tuesday night before winds 
ramp back up. Additionally, isolated 35 to 40 kt gusts can not 
be ruled out Tuesday afternoon, specifically under any 
convective showers that could mix down higher gusts.

As previously mentioned, the SCA will likely need to be extended 
through Wednesday. Gusts finally lower Wednesday night, with the 
potential for some 5 ft seas lingering in the eastern ocean zone 
through the night.

Waves are expected to remain below SCA criteria through Friday night 
with high pressure in control. Winds will remain below 25 kt through 
Friday, but may approach 25 kt by late Friday night on the ocean 
waters as a frontal system approaches from the west.

&&

.HYDROLOGY...
There are no hydrologic concerns through the weekend.

&&

.OKX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CT...None.
NY...None.
NJ...None.
MARINE...Small Craft Advisory from 2 PM Tuesday to 6 AM EDT Wednesday 
     for ANZ331-332-335-338-340-345-350-353-355.

&&

$$

SYNOPSIS...JP/JT
NEAR TERM...JE/JT
SHORT TERM...JT
LONG TERM...JP
AVIATION...JP
MARINE...JP/JT
HYDROLOGY...JP/JT
