439 
FXUS61 KOKX 091103
AFDOKX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service New York NY
603 AM EST Sun Feb 9 2025

.SYNOPSIS...
Low pressure southeast of the area tracks northeast today.
Meanwhile, high pressure builds in from the west through Monday
night. A series of lows will impact the area Tuesday through 
Thursday. High pressure returns to end the week and start the 
weekend.

&&

.NEAR TERM /UNTIL 6 PM THIS EVENING/...
Light precipitation has persisted across portions of Suffolk
County on Long Island and much of Southern Connecticut in the 
form of light snow and freezing drizzle. This should generally
continue to weaken through the morning hours but some light
additional accumulations are possible in the more persistent
areas of snow. Perhaps a few more tenths of snow or a hundredth 
of ice is possible before the light precipitation ends and 
temperatures warm above freezing.

With the precipitation now light, and ending early this 
morning, with only minor additional accumulations of snow and 
ice expected, the Winter Storm Warnings, and Winter Weather 
Advisories have been cancelled. A Special Weather Statement has 
been issued with the on-going precipitation and potential for 
icy roads.

With the low moving to the northeast, and high pressure building
to the west, precipitation will be ending from the west and 
southwest to the northeast through early this morning.

&&

.SHORT TERM /6 PM THIS EVENING THROUGH MONDAY NIGHT/...
High pressure will be building into the region tonight and be 
over the area Monday night. Lows tonight will be near seasonal
normals. Temperatures Monday and Monday night will be nearly 5
degrees below normal as skies clear and winds become light,
allowing for radiational cooling.

&&

.LONG TERM /TUESDAY THROUGH SATURDAY/...
Zonal flow aloft for Tuesday and Tuesday night will help keep a
weak area of low pressure to our south as it develops near the 
Mid- Atlantic coast and heads east into the western Atlantic. 
The right- entrance region of a strong upper jet streak will be 
over us and allow for expansion of the low's precip shield into 
the forecast area. Light snow likely Tuesday night for approx 
the southern two-thirds of the forecast area with a 50% chance 
of snow for the northernmost zones. Snow accumulations would be 
up to an inch.

Surface high pressure builds to our northeast during Wednesday 
with upper confluence. Thinking is that surface ridging over 
here will be strong enough to hold off any precipitation through
the daytime hours and this is supported by model qpf field 
trends, but decided to leave in a slight chance of snow for some
areas. Precip is then expected Wednesday night and Thursday 
with a familiar pattern of primary low pressure passing to our 
NW while a weaker secondary low shifts through the forecast 
area. This would send an elevated warm nose through, changing 
snow to a wintry mix Wednesday night before an eventual 
changeover to rain on Thursday as enough warm air pushes in. 
Right now it appears that snow/sleet accumulations would be on 
the light side before the changeover to rain. Can't rule out a 
little freezing rain well NW of the city either.

Colder air filters back in from the NW Thursday night as high 
pressure builds back in behind the departing storm with 
lingering rain showers at the coast and snow showers or mixed 
rain/snow showers inland. Dry weather then expected for Friday 
and Friday night with high pressure in control. Another storm 
may then bring a wintry mix to the area by the end of Saturday.

&&

.AVIATION /12Z SUNDAY THROUGH THURSDAY/...
Low pressure moves northeast of the terminals today, with drier air 
moving into the region

The heaviest of the precipitation has pushed east with just some 
left over drizzle or freezing drizzle. The only exception will be at 
KGON, where some -sn will remain possible for another hour or two. 
Most of the freezing drizzle should come to an end between 11z-14z

IFR/LIFR at all the area terminals through the morning hours with 
improvement to VFR expected by late morning and/or early afternoon. 

Winds are generally light across the region, however as the low 
deepens and moves away, they become NW by mid morning with speeds 
increasing 10-15G20-25kt. Winds diminish this evening as high 
pressure builds in from the west. 

 ...NY Metro (KEWR/KLGA/KJFK/KTEB) TAF Uncertainty... 

Amendments likely early this morning as conditions begin to 
gradually improve. 

.OUTLOOK FOR 06Z MONDAY THROUGH THURSDAY... 

Monday: VFR.

Tuesday: Chance of snow in the afternoon/night, mainly at the 
coastal terminals. IFR/LIFR conditions possible.

Wednesday: Slight chance of light snow/MVFR or lower conditions
at the coastal terminals early.

Thursday: MVFR/IFR in a wintry mix to rain.

Detailed information, including hourly TAF wind component forecasts, 
can be found at: https:/www.weather.gov/zny/n90

&&

.MARINE...
Marginal small craft advisory northwest wind gusts will be 
developing on the ocean waters this morning behind a deepening
low that was southeast of Cape Cod at 09Z. Ocean seas will also
build in the northwest flow. A SCA is in effect for the ocean
waters beginning at 1100 AM, and ending west to east this
evening and into the overnight as high pressure builds in from
the west, and winds diminish. With the high in control through 
Monday night winds and seas remain below advisory levels. And,
with a weak pressure gradient continuing Tuesday into Wednesday
sub SCA conditions continue. An onshore flow then increases 
Wednesday night into Thursday morning with the approach of low 
pressure approaching from the south and west. Advisory-level 
gusts anticipated on all waters during this period with even a 
chance of a gust or two approaching gale force for a brief 
period on the ocean waters. Winds then shift offshore Thursday 
afternoon after a brief lull before increasing once again 
Thursday night with SCA conditions probable on all waters.

&&

.HYDROLOGY...
There are no hydrologic concerns through the forecast period.

&&

.OKX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CT...None.
NY...None.
NJ...None.
MARINE...Small Craft Advisory from 11 AM this morning to 1 AM EST 
     Monday for ANZ350-353.
     Small Craft Advisory from 11 AM this morning to 9 PM EST this 
     evening for ANZ355.

&&

$$

SYNOPSIS...MET
NEAR TERM...MET/MW
SHORT TERM...MET
LONG TERM...
AVIATION...BC
MARINE...MET
HYDROLOGY...MET
