658 
FXUS61 KOKX 291946 CCA
AFDOKX

Area Forecast Discussion...CORRECTED
National Weather Service New York NY
346 PM EDT Tue Jul 29 2025

.SYNOPSIS...
Weak high pressure will remain in control into Wednesday. A cold 
front will then slowly approach from the northwest Wednesday 
night, stalling nearby on Thursday. A frontal wave then develops
Thursday night, and passes to the south and east through Friday
evening. High pressure builds in from the northwest Saturday, 
and moves offshore Sunday. The high remains offshore into early 
next week.

&&

.NEAR TERM /THROUGH WEDNESDAY/...
Heat headlines remain unchanged with advisories for all but NE 
NJ (minus western Passaic), where there is an extreme heat
warning.  

A warm upper ridge encompassing the southern two thirds of the 
country will begin to get suppressed southward in coming days 
as heights fall in response to an upper trough across eastern 
Canada. In the meantime, hot and humid conditions will persist
into Wednesday in a deep-layered westerly flow. 85H temps will 
remain around 20C. 

Lows tonight will generally be in the 70s with a few locations 
across the NYC/NJ metro getting no lower than 80. This combined
with dew points in the upper 60s to lower 70s will continue to 
make even the nighttime hours uncomfortable.

High on Wednesday will be very close to what we experienced on 
Tuesday, with the upper 80s to lower 90s near the coast, and 
the mid to upper 90s elsewhere. A few locations may eclipse 100,
especially across urban NE NJ. Readings will be close to 
records for some locations. 

Widely scattered to scattered convection will be a possibility
in the afternoon, mainly north and west of the NYC metro.
Strengthening mid-level flow and marginal CAPE will support a 
few strong and/or severe storms. However, LFCs will be high with
a mid/upper level warm nose. There is also not much of trigger 
outside of a thermal trough and differential heating across the
hills north and west. The cold front will remain well northwest
of the area at this time. SPC has the area under a marginal 
risk for severe with the main threat being damaging wind gusts.

&&

.SHORT TERM /WEDNESDAY NIGHT/...
Cold front will approach from the northwest Wednesday night, 
interacting with a marginally unstable airmass with gradually 
falling heights. Then limiting factor will be the loss of 
daytime instability and better forcing to the north of the 
forecast area. Expect scattered coverage of showers and 
thunderstorms. The better chance looks to be after midnight as 
the front begins to enter the far northwest zones. Widespread 
showers and possible thunderstorms looks to be later on 
Thursday. 

Wednesday night will remain warm and humid with lows in the 
upper 60s to lower 70s and similar dew points. 

&&

.LONG TERM /THURSDAY THROUGH TUESDAY/...
A cold front will be moving through the region during Thursday, and 
then stall somewhere to the south of New York City and Long Island. 
A frontal wave develops and passes slowly to the south and east 
during late Thursday night into Friday evening. There will be the 
potential for moderate to heavy rainfall across much of the region 
late Thursday through Friday with the combination of an upper level 
right rear jet passing to the north, and the frontal boundary and 
wave of low pressure to the south. The flow will be nearly zonal, 
with a storm motion west to west/northwest, and any showers and 
convection training over the same areas, enhancing rainfall totals. 
See the HYDROLOGY section for details on rainfall and potential 
impacts. Also, there is a thunderstorm potential with the best 
instability and CAPE near and south of wherever the frontal boundary 
sets up. With this uncertainty have used coverage wording for 
thunderstorms Thursday and Friday.

Weak upper ridging begins to build late Friday night into Saturday 
with surface high pressure approaching from the northwest. This high 
will settle over the region Saturday and move offshore Sunday. Dew 
points will be falling into the 50s for Saturday and Sunday, and 
slowly increase into the beginning of next week as a weak return 
flow sets up. With the high moving in temperatures will return to 
near seasonal normal levels Saturday into early next week.

&&

.AVIATION /19Z TUESDAY THROUGH SUNDAY/...
Weak high pressure remains in control through Wednesday morning. 
The high slides further offshore Wednesday afternoon allowing a 
cold front to approach.

Generally looking at VFR through the forecast period. There may
be an isolated shower or thunderstorm that develops this 
afternoon, mainly around NYC. Confidence remains too low at this
time to include a mention in TAFs. Also, will introduce a PROB30
for TSRA at KSWF as some thunderstorms develop ahead of an
approaching cold front. 

W / WSW winds with seabreezes at some of the coastal terminals 
which turns the flow more S or SW. Winds go light and variable
tonight. Winds become a bit more southerly everywhere on
Wednesday. 

     NY Metro (KEWR/KLGA/KJFK/KTEB) TAF Uncertainty...

Cannot completely rule out an isolated shower or thunderstorm 
this afternoon.

.OUTLOOK FOR 18Z WEDNESDAY THROUGH SUNDAY... 

Wednesday afternoon-Thursday night: Mainly VFR Wednesday
afternoon. Chances of showers/thunderstorms through much of 
this period beginning Wednesday evening. Chances peak Thursday 
afternoon into Thursday night. Potential for MVFR or lower in 
any shower/storm. 

Friday: sub VFR likely in AM, conditions improve to VFR for the 
afternoon and evening.

Saturday and Sunday: VFR.

Detailed information, including hourly TAF wind component forecasts, 
can be found at: https:/www.weather.gov/zny/n90

&&

.MARINE...
Conditions are expected to remain below Small Craft Advisory 
criteria through Thursday night. A wave of low pressure 
developing on a stalled front south of Long Island late Thursday
night will deepen and pass south and east through Friday 
evening. Small Craft Advisory conditions are likely to develop 
on the ocean waters during Friday and then continue into Friday 
night. Once the wave passes to the east conditions will be 
improving west to east, falling below advisory levels late 
Friday night into Saturday morning. There is also a chance of 25
kt gusts on the far eastern Long Island Sound waters during 
Friday evening into Friday night.

&&

.HYDROLOGY...
There are no hydrologic concerns through Wednesday. 

More persistent and widespread moderate to heavy rainfall is 
possible Thursday afternoon into Friday. WPC has outlined the entire 
region in a slight risk of excessive rainfall Thursday into Friday 
morning, and localized to isolated areas of flash flooding could 
develop where the heaviest axis of rainfall sets up. Currently there 
is the potential for 2 to 3 inches across the lower Hudson Valley 
into northeastern New Jersey, and 1 to 2 inches farther south and 
east. Some areas could receive higher amounts. There remains some 
uncertainty as to where this axis will be. Otherwise, anticipating 
more of a nuisance flood threat, particularly in the typical urban 
and poor drainage areas.

Dry weather returns Friday evening and continues into the beginning 
of next week.

&&

.TIDES/COASTAL FLOODING...
There is an overall low rip current risk for ocean beaches
through Thursday due to a 1 ft S/SE swell and 1 to 2 ft wind 
waves. 

&&

.CLIMATE...
Record High Temperatures for Tuesday, July 29
----------------------------------------------------
Newark       100/1949 *New record high of 101 reported*
Bridgeport    96/2002
Central Park  99/1949
LaGuardia     97/1949 *New record high of 100 reported*
Kennedy       99/2002
Islip         96/2002 *Tied Record high today* 


Record High Temperatures for Wednesday, July 30
----------------------------------------------------
Newark       101/1949
Bridgeport    95/1949
Central Park *98/1988
LaGuardia     99/1988
Kennedy       96/2002
Islip         95/1988

* Also occurred in previous years

Record Minimum Temperatures for Wednesday, July 30 
----------------------------------------------------
Central Park........80 (2002)
LaGuardia...........81 (2019,2002)
Kennedy.............79 (2006,1995)
Islip...............76 (2002)
Newark..............81 (2002)
Bridgeport..........76 (2002)

&&

.OKX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CT...Heat Advisory until 8 PM EDT Wednesday for CTZ005>012.
     Air Quality Alert until 11 PM EDT this evening for CTZ009>012.
NY...Heat Advisory until 8 PM EDT Wednesday for NYZ067>075-078>081-
     176>179.
     Air Quality Alert until 11 PM EDT this evening for NYZ069>075-
     078>081-176>179.
NJ...Heat Advisory until 8 PM EDT Wednesday for NJZ002.
     Air Quality Alert until 11 PM EDT this evening for NJZ002-004-
     006-103>108.
     Extreme Heat Warning until 8 PM EDT Wednesday for NJZ004-006-
     103>108.
MARINE...None.

&&

$$

SYNOPSIS...MET/DW
NEAR TERM...DW
SHORT TERM...DW
LONG TERM...MET
AVIATION...BC
MARINE...MET/DW
HYDROLOGY...MET/DW
TIDES/COASTAL FLOODING...//
CLIMATE...//
