948 
FXUS61 KOKX 071716
AFDOKX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service New York NY
116 PM EDT Wed May 7 2025

.SYNOPSIS...
Weak cold front and surface trough pass today as low pressure exits 
into New England. Weak high pressure takes hold tonight. A stalled 
cold front with developing low pressure impacts us Thursday 
afternoon into Friday. Low pressure exits northeast Friday
night into Saturday morning. A weak cold front will cross
Saturday night, with high pressure building in for early next 
week.

&&

.NEAR TERM /THROUGH TONIGHT/...
10 am Update: No significant changes.

Upper trough over northern NY will lift into New England this
afternoon and could bring an isolated shower, but consensus of 
high-res models and ensembles keep most of activity to our 
north, in closer proximity to upper cold pool and better
instability. That said, we should see an increase in cloudiness,
especially across lower Hudson Valley and adjacent parts of CT. 

Weak pressure gradient in place should allow for coastal sea
breezes this afternoon.

Tonight, the low will continue to exit into the Canadian Maritimes 
with high pressure briefly nosing in from the north in Canada. Light 
winds could allow for another night of patchy fog.

&&

.SHORT TERM /THURSDAY THROUGH FRIDAY NIGHT/...
Key Messages:

 * A stalled front and low pressure to bring prolonged period of 
   rainfall Thursday afternoon into Friday night.

 * Periods of moderate to locally heavy rainfall possible.

 * 1-2" expected with locally higher totals possible.

A cold front will set up over the area on Thursday and stall over or 
nearby into Friday. At the same time, a Mid-Atlantic low will pass 
along the front during this time frame. An upper-level trough will 
also dig into northern New York Thursday, becoming closed and moving 
nearby Thursday night into Friday. The upper-low and surface low 
will then become stacked on Friday as it phases with a southern
jet stream, then exit northeast Friday night. 

Low pressure along the stalled front will lead to periods of showers 
Thursday afternoon into Friday, with showers tapering west to east 
Friday night as the system exits. Some timing discrepancies still 
exist among the 00Z guidance, with some quicker than others with the 
system's exit. Thunderstorms will be possible in the afternoon and 
evening on both Thursday and Friday with marginal instability and 
shear in place. 

00Z guidance vary with QPF amounts. Periods of moderate to locally 
heavy rainfall are possible given lift from the stalled front, 
marginal instability, positive vorticity advection from the nearby 
closed upper-low, some orographic enhancement of precip with 
easterly flow Thursday night into early Friday, and warm air 
advection at 850mb Friday afternoon and evening. PWATs should peak 
around 1.25 to 1.45" which is right at or above the 90th percentile 
per SPC's Sounding Climatology Page. 

Current forecasted QPF is between 1-2" Thursday afternoon through 
Friday night. Its quite possible some areas could receive a few 
inches more than this, depending on where the heaviest 
showers/thunderstorms set up. 00Z CAMs are hinting at some 
banded higher amounts late Thursday into Thursday night north 
and west of NYC, particularly in the Lower Hudson Valley. As a 
result, WPC has gone with a Slight Risk for Excessive Rainfall 
for parts of Orange county with and Marginal Risk for the 
remainder of the area on Thursday. Friday also carries a 
Marginal Risk for the entire area.

&&

.LONG TERM /SATURDAY THROUGH TUESDAY/...
Conditions continue to improve Saturday morning as low pressure 
departs to the north. While there may be a few leftover showers 
Saturday morning, expect a drying trend.

Another shortwave likely crosses the area Saturday night with 
associated weak cold frontal passage, with Canadian high pressure 
building into its wake and gradually rising heights. 

The high will keep conditions dry through Monday night. The next 
chance of precip comes on Tuesday or Wednesday with the 
approach of the next low pressure system.

Temperatures on Saturday will remain around seasonable levels, 
however temperatures warm to above normal for the rest of the long 
term.

&&

.AVIATION /17Z WEDNESDAY THROUGH SUNDAY/...
A trough of low pressure will remain near the terminals 
through tonight before a cold front stalls north of NYC
Thursday.

VFR through Thu with ceilings AOA 050 much of the time. A brief
isolated shower is possible in lower Hudson Valley and into
western CT later this afternoon but not enough confidence to
include in TAFs. Did add mention (Prob30) of showers for NYC
metro airports late Thu afternoon, but showers along with
MVFR/IFR conditions are more likely Thu night into Fri.

SW winds around 10kt through the evening except S sea breeze at
KJFK. Not confident that it reaches KLGA but there is a low
chance 21z-00z. Lighter W winds tonight shift to N/NW overnight,
with sea breezes at KJFK/KLGA Thu afternoon.

 ...NY Metro (KEWR/KLGA/KJFK/KTEB) TAF Uncertainty...

No unscheduled amendments expected.

.OUTLOOK FOR 12Z FRIDAY THROUGH MONDAY...

Friday: MVFR or lower possible in showers. 

Saturday: Mainly VFR, except MVFR or lower possible isolated  
showers.

Sunday and Monday: VFR.

Detailed information, including hourly TAF wind component forecasts, 
can be found at: https:/www.weather.gov/zny/n90

&&

.MARINE...
Sub SCA conditions likely on Thu under a weak pressure 
gradient.

Next potential for SCA conditions is Friday into Friday Night, 
particularly on the ocean waters, with coastal low pressure. 

Conditions fall below SCA levels on Saturday and remain below SCA 
levels through the start of next week.

&&

.HYDROLOGY...
Widespread moderate to locally heavy rainfall is possible Thursday 
afternoon into Friday night. Total rainfall amounts will be 1-2", 
but could be locally higher for areas north and west of NYC. Flood 
impacts are expected to be minor for most, limited to only low-
lying, poor drainage, nuisance issues. We could see isolated flash 
flood impacts late Thursday into Thursday night for parts of the far 
interior north and west of NYC where banded precipitation could
set up.

&&

.OKX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CT...None.
NY...None.
NJ...None.
MARINE...None.

&&

$$

SYNOPSIS...BC/BR
NEAR TERM...JWD
SHORT TERM...BR
LONG TERM...BC
AVIATION...JWD
MARINE...BC/BR
HYDROLOGY...BC/BR
