500 
FXUS61 KOKX 012328
AFDOKX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service New York NY
628 PM EST Wed Jan 1 2025

.SYNOPSIS...
Low pressure will continue to strengthen as it moves northeast 
towards and then into Canadian Maritimes through tonight. The low 
then retrogrades west into Southeast Canada Thursday into Friday. 
Meanwhile, weak high pressure will slides well to the southwest of 
the region Thursday into Friday with a polar front moving through 
Friday night. Weak high pressure builds in for the weekend. An area 
of low pressure passes to the south early next week.

&&

.NEAR TERM /UNTIL 6 AM THURSDAY MORNING/...
*Wind Advisory remains in effect for westerly wind gusts 45 to 
 50 mph (isolated gusts to 55mph this evening.)

Deep longwave troughing continues across the NE US, with axis 
of developing closed low pivoting through the region this 
evening. At the surface, low pressure will continue to 
strengthen as it moves northeast up the Maine coast tonight with
a cold front moving east of the region early this evening.

Strong westerly winds ramp up into early this evening in wake 
of shortwave/cold frontal passage with strengthening boundary 
layer winds, deepening of lapse rates and momentum transfer and 
shot of cold advection. BUFKIT data indicating winds at top of 
mixed later strengthening to 45-50kt, and with above factors, 
indicating potential for widespread westerly winds 
20-30g40-50mph, with some localized gusts up to 55 mph into this
evening. Weakening lapse rates and caa after midnight indicate 
that winds will likely diminish a bit overnight, likely 
averaging 15-25g35-45mph.

Deep cyclonic flow and traversing shortwave and cold front will
continue to translate enhanced lift for scattered to numerous 
showers eastward into early evening. Thermal profiles across 
interior, particularly for elevations above 500 ft appear 
supportive for rain shower activity to mix with snow, or briefly
changeover to snow showers early this evening, before tapering 
off. A dusting of snow accumulation possible for highest 
elevations (especially above 750 ft). Plain rain showers 
elsewhere, with perhaps a few wet flakes mixing in before 
ending.

Otherwise drying conditions from w to e later this evening in 
wake of shortwave/cold front. Despite gradual cold advection, 
mixed low-levels and scattered to bkn cloud cover should keep 
temps near to slightly above seasonable levels (Upper 20s to 
lower 30s).

&&

.SHORT TERM /6 AM THURSDAY MORNING THROUGH FRIDAY NIGHT/...
*Wind Advisory remains in effect for the entire area until 10 PM 
Thursday evening for westerly wind gusts 45 to 50 mph, isolated 
gusts to 55mph.

Deep longwave troughing continues across the NE US, centered by
a deepening closed low retrograding NW from the Canadian 
Maritimes into Quebec. A weak northern stream shortwave pivots 
around the base of the longwave trough towards the region late 
Friday and then through the region Friday Night.

At the surface, strong low pressure retrogrades NW through 
southeast Canada Thursday into Friday. Meanwhile, weak high 
pressure slides well to the southwest of the region, with a 
polar front approaching late Friday. 

Pressure gradient remains tight thru the day Thursday, with 
winds at top of mixed layer 45-50 kt in a diurnally steepened 
mixing profile. This should support resurgence of westerly winds
20-30g40-50 mph areawide, with isolated gusts to 55 mph. Winds 
should gradually decrease Thu Night as pressure gradient 
weakens, but W winds 15-20G25-35mph likely through at least the
first half of Friday. Winds should subside a bit Fri aft/early 
eve, before a resurgence to similar speeds from the NW winds 
Friday Night with shot of CAA and strengthened pressure 
gradient.

Otherwise, continued cyclonic flow with weak vorts moving 
through, will develop diurnal scattered to broken strato-cu 
development across the area Thursday. Cloud cover should scatter
Thursday Night into Fri AM, with increasing cloud cover Fri 
afternoon ahead of next approaching shortwave and polar front. 
Deep westerly flow will keep conditions dry, but a few flurries 
possible late Friday/Friday eve with shortwave/frontal passage.

Continued gradual CAA through the period should have highs near 
seasonable on Thursday and a few degrees below seasonable Friday. 
Near seasonable temps Thu Night with mixed low-levels, and a few 
degrees below seasonable Friday Night with shot of polar air 
working in.

&&

.LONG TERM /SATURDAY THROUGH WEDNESDAY/...
Key points include cold/blustery/mainly dry conditions until 
potentially early next week, with chances of snow. 

Weak high pressure builds in at the surface as an upper level trough 
departs for the weekend, keeping the area dry. A southern stream 
trough approaches Sunday night with a weak area of low pressure from 
the central or south central US (given some uncertainty), and passes 
south of the area Monday night into Tuesday. Current model consensus 
is to take this low south of the area late Monday into Monday night, 
and this trend continues with today's model runs. The area could see 
some light snow on the northern fringes of this system, but there is 
still a great deal of uncertainty this far out, and stuck pretty 
close to the NBM.

A persistent WNW to NW flow during this time frame will mean 
temperatures are expected average below normal through the period, 
not rising above the 30s for high temperatures.

&&

.AVIATION /00Z THURSDAY THROUGH MONDAY/...
Low pressure slowly tracks into New Brunswick Canada late tonight 
and Thursday. 

Mainly VFR thru the TAF period, although MVFR could linger at 
times into this evening across northern terminals. 

W winds 15-25G30-35kt with some gusts 35-40 kt. These winds should 
diminish after the evening push to 15-20G25-30kt. Winds increase 
again after 12-13Z Thursday back up to 35 to 40 kt.

 ...NY Metro (KEWR/KLGA/KJFK/KTEB) TAF Uncertainty... 

G40kt possible thru 05Z and then again Thursday. 

OUTLOOK FOR 00Z FRIDAY THROUGH MONDAY...

Thursday Night: VFR with diminishing winds.

Friday through Sunday: Mainly VFR. W winds G20-25kt. 

Monday: VFR likely with chance MVFR in snow.

Detailed information, including hourly TAF wind component forecasts, 
can be found at: https:/www.weather.gov/zny/n90

&&

.MARINE...
Gale conditions this afternoon across the ocean waters and then all 
water from early to mid afternoon. Gale conditions continuing 
through Thursday evening. Ocean seas will build to 7 to 12 ft on 
westerly gales, and 4 to 7 ft on central and eastern LI Sound.

Winds expected to decrease to SCA Thursday night into Friday AM. 
Winds may briefly fall below SCA Fri aft, before another shot 
of CAA in wake of polar front Friday Night likely brings conds 
back up to SCA for all waters. 

An extended period of SCA for the weekend as gusts are forecast to 
be 25 to 30 kt for most of the waters and seas on the ocean build to 
5 to 7 ft through Saturday night, slowly diminishing on Sunday. All 
ocean waters fall below 5 ft by late Sunday night.

&&

.HYDROLOGY...
No significant hydrologic issues are anticipated into the
beginning of next weekend.

&&

.TIDES/COASTAL FLOODING...
Water levels may approach 1.5 to 2 ft below MLLW across western
portions of NY Harbor, W LI Sound, and the southern and eastern
bays of LI during Thu aft low tide, which could cause some 
localized low water issue for moored boats and shallow water 
navigation.

&&

.OKX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CT...Wind Advisory until 10 PM EST Thursday for CTZ005>012.
NY...Wind Advisory until 10 PM EST Thursday for NYZ067>075-078>081-
     176>179.
NJ...Wind Advisory until 10 PM EST Thursday for NJZ002-004-006-
     103>108.
MARINE...Gale Warning until 10 PM EST Thursday for ANZ331-332-335-338-
     340-345.
     Gale Warning until 1 AM EST Friday for ANZ350-353-355.

&&

$$

SYNOPSIS...JP/NV
NEAR TERM...NV
SHORT TERM...NV
LONG TERM...JP
AVIATION...JT
MARINE...JP/NV
HYDROLOGY...JP/NV
TIDES/COASTAL FLOODING...
