551 
FXUS61 KOKX 101737
AFDOKX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service New York NY
1237 PM EST Mon Feb 10 2025

.SYNOPSIS...
High pressure builds over the region through tonight, and moves
offshore early Tuesday. A series of lows will then impact the 
area Tuesday night through the weekend.

&&

.NEAR TERM /UNTIL 6 PM THIS EVENING/...
Tranquil weather is expected today as high pressure builds in 
slowly from the west. Lower levels will remain moist with 
strato cu from to time to time. A cold airmass and the snowpack
will keep temperatures a few degrees below normal.

&&

.SHORT TERM /6 PM THIS EVENING THROUGH TUESDAY NIGHT/...
Tonight the high moves overhead, and then offshore early Tuesday
morning. With winds becoming light and skies nearly clear,
especially early, as high clouds move in toward Tuesday
morning, and the snowpack will allow temperatures to fall into 
the teens across the interior and the normally colder areas of 
Long Island.

Tuesday the high continues to move off the northeast coast and a
weak wave of low pressure approaches from the southwest. Another
high builds across southern Canada. The low tracks well to the
south Tuesday night with a period of light snow across the
region Tuesday night. Little to no snow will fall across the
northern areas, with the highest snow totals across the New York
City metro and Long Island where around 2 inches of snow is
possible. The strength of the high will determine the track of
the low and a slightly farther north track will result in a
little more snow along the coast. The system will be relatively
quick moving as nearly zonal flow persists.

&&

.LONG TERM /WEDNESDAY THROUGH SUNDAY/...
Not much change to the forecast in the long term. Stuck fairly close 
to NBM/previous forecast. 

Low pressure passing south of the region departs early 
Wednesday morning. Any light snow comes to an end early. 

Surface high pressure builds slightly to our northeast during 
Wednesday with upper confluence. Surface ridging should be 
strong enough to hold off any precipitation through the daytime 
hours, however, will continue to leave a slight chance of snow 
for some areas. Precip is then expected Wednesday night and 
Thursday with a familiar pattern of primary low pressure passing
to our NW while a weaker secondary low shifts nearby or through
the forecast area. This would send an elevated warm nose 
through, changing snow to a wintry mix Wednesday night before an
eventual changeover to rain on Thursday as enough warm air 
pushes in. Right now it appears that snow/sleet accumulations 
would be on the light side before the changeover to rain. Can't 
rule out a little freezing rain north and west of the city 
either.

Colder air filters back in from the NW Thursday night as high 
pressure builds back in behind the departing storm. Dry weather 
will be likely for this period as models have trended faster 
with the storm. Dry weather then remains for Friday and Friday 
night with high pressure in control. Another storm then likely 
brings a wintry mix possibly by the end of the day Saturday, but
more likely Saturday night and Sunday. Not so sure that this 
will be another case of a primary/secondary low center bringing 
in a warm nose aloft, so kept precip types simplified to rain, 
snow or a mix of the two.

&&

.AVIATION /18Z MONDAY THROUGH SATURDAY/...
High pressure continues to build over the terminals through this
evening. The high pressure weakens on Tuesday as low pressure
develops across 

VFR through the TAF period with high pressure in control through
Tuesday.

NW winds 10-15 kt this afternoon. A few gusts 15-20 kt possible
through 20z. NW winds diminish this evening with winds becoming
light and variable for outlying terminals and around 5-7 kt at 
NYC terminals. Winds gradually become SW Tuesday morning into
Tuesday afternoon under 10 kt. 

 ...NY Metro (KEWR/KLGA/KJFK/KTEB) TAF Uncertainty... 

Occasional gusts 15-20 kt possible through 20z. 

.OUTLOOK FOR 12Z TUESDAY THROUGH SATURDAY... 

Tuesday Afternoon-Night: VFR afternoon, becoming IFR/LIFR at
night in light snow especially across NYC metro and Long Island
terminals. 

Wednesday: Light snow ending early. Brief VFR then possible into
afternoon. Snow/wintry mix developing in the evening with
IFR/LIFR. NE gusts 15-20 kt afternoon and at night along coast.

Thursday: IFR in a wintry mix early inland with rain elsewhere
in the morning. NW wind gusts 15-20 kt developing at night.

Friday: VFR. NW wind gusts 15-20 kt during the day.

Saturday: VFR early. Chance MVFR or lower and rain/snow mix near
coast and snow inland late. 

Detailed information, including hourly TAF wind component forecasts, 
can be found at: https:/www.weather.gov/zny/n90

&&

.MARINE...
No changes to winds and seas with this update.

With a weak pressure gradient force across the waters today
through Tuesday night winds and seas will remain below advisory
levels across the forecast waters.

An easterly flow on the area waters may result in some marginal
small craft conditions on the ocean waters Wednesday. 

A better chance of small craft conditions occurs Wednesday night 
into Thursday morning as low pressure passes over the area waters. 
Advisory-level gusts anticipated on all waters during this period. 
Winds then shift offshore Thursday afternoon after a brief lull 
before increasing once again Thursday night with SCA conditions 
probable on all waters. Winds weaken on Friday with advisory 
conditions remaining mostly on the ocean waters. Another round of 
SCA conditions are expected over the weekend.

&&

.HYDROLOGY...
There are no hydrologic concerns through the forecast period.

&&

.OKX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CT...None.
NY...None.
NJ...None.
MARINE...None.

&&

$$

SYNOPSIS...BC/MET
NEAR TERM...MET/JT
SHORT TERM...MET
LONG TERM...BC
AVIATION...DS
MARINE...BC/MET
HYDROLOGY...BC/MET
