598 
FXUS61 KOKX 111824
AFDOKX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service New York NY
224 PM EDT Fri Jul 11 2025

.SYNOPSIS...
High pressure slowly builds in from the northeast through
Saturday and remains into Sunday. Meanwhile a thermal trough
develops inland Saturday and Sunday afternoon. High pressure 
will remain over the Atlantic through the beginning of next 
week. A cold front may approach the area by the end of the week.

&&

.NEAR TERM /THROUGH TONIGHT/...
A weak upper zonal flow will initially be across the northeast 
into this evening, and then a weak upper ridge develops as 
heights begin to slowly rise overnight. Meanwhile a surface high
will be building into the region from coastal New England. 
While there is surface instability and CAPE there is little 
forcing and a weak capping inversion for little convection to 
develop. The main focus into this evening will be inland with a 
surface trough developing. Any storms will be isolated, but 
could produce briefly heavy rainfall, with high precipitable 
water values and slow moving storms. Storms will then diminish 
with the loss of daytime heating.

Then late tonight a weak shortwave moves through the weak upper
ridge, and this may trigger additional showers and thunderstorms
toward Saturday morning.

&&

.SHORT TERM /SATURDAY THROUGH SUNDAY/...
The weak upper shortwave will move through the area early
Saturday morning, and there will be a brief break in the showers
and thunderstorms until Saturday afternoon as additional upper
energy approaches, and instability increases in the vicinity of
another thermal trough developing inland, where there main focus
of showers and thunderstorms will be. Overall, Saturday
afternoon and evening will be a repeat of Friday
afternoon/evening in regard to precipitation.

Upper ridging will be in place through much of Sunday, with the
ridge axis moving offshore Sunday afternoon with the approach of
a digging upper trough and surface cold front.

Heat indices across the interior both Saturday and Sunday will
peak in the 90 to 95 range, falling below heat advisory
criteria.

&&

.LONG TERM /SUNDAY NIGHT THROUGH THURSDAY/...
It will be unstable for much of the week with a hot airmass in 
place. An upr trof could help trigger shwrs and tstms Mon, then some 
ridging ahead of the next sys could limit convection Tue and Wed. A 
cold front approaching from the NW could help trigger more extensive 
coverage Thu and Fri. 

Temps abv normal Tue-Fri, with highs in many spots aoa 90. Thu is 
modeled to be the hottest attm with apparent temps around 100 for 
nern NJ and the interior.

The NBM was followed.

&&

.AVIATION /18Z FRIDAY THROUGH WEDNESDAY/...
A weak frontal boundary slowly shifts south of the terminals 
through tonight.

Pesky lower cigs continue to linger at some terminals, 
particularly KISP and KGON, with gradual improvement expected 
thru remainder of the afternoon. A spotty shower or thunderstorm
remains possible at KSWF late afternoon and early this evening.

Conditions start falling back to MVFR or IFR tonight with low 
cigs and potentially mist or fog developing largely after 3Z. 
Improvement and return to VFR expected for most by 15Z Sat.

A light SE flow at or under 10 kt thru rest of the day. Winds become 
light and variable tonight, then SE once again on Saturday.

 ...NY Metro (KEWR/KLGA/KJFK/KTEB) TAF Uncertainty...

MVFR cigs may linger into early afternoon, especially at KJFK.

Timing of lower cigs and vsbys tonight may be off by a couple of 
hours. IFR or lower possible into Sat AM should fog develop.

.OUTLOOK FOR 18Z SATURDAY THROUGH WEDNESDAY... 

Saturday-Sunday: Mainly VFR. A chance of showers and thunderstorms 
during the afternoon and early evening near and northwest of the NYC 
terminals.

Monday: MVFR or lower in the afternoon and early evening with 
showers and thunderstorms likely.

Tuesday-Wednesday: Mainly VFR. Showers or thunderstorm possible in 
the afternoon and evening.

Detailed information, including hourly TAF wind component forecasts, 
can be found at: https:/www.weather.gov/zny/n90

&&

.MARINE...
With a light flow through Sunday winds and seas across the
forecast waters will remain below advisory levels.

A weak pres grad will likely keep winds and seas blw sca lvls 
Mon thru the day on Wed. Seas on the ocean may build to sca lvls
Wed ngt thru Fri with a front approaching.

&&

.HYDROLOGY...
Isolated thunderstorms that develop inland this afternoon and 
Saturday could produce a brief period of heavy rain, with 
localized minor flooding possible. Although much of the area
will remain dry. Otherwise there are no hydrologic concerns
tonight through Sunday.

In the long term, localized hydrologic impacts are possible due to 
tstms.

&&

.TIDES/COASTAL FLOODING...
Rip current risk is low through Saturday along Atlantic facing 
ocean beaches with onshore flow 5-10 kt and a 3 ft swell from 
the southeast at a 7-8 sec period.

&&

.OKX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CT...None.
NY...None.
NJ...None.
MARINE...None.

&&

$$

SYNOPSIS...JMC/MET
NEAR TERM...MET
SHORT TERM...MET
LONG TERM...JMC
AVIATION...DR
MARINE...JMC/MET
HYDROLOGY...JMC/MET
TIDES/COASTAL FLOODING...
