788 
FXUS61 KOKX 030004
AFDOKX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service New York NY
704 PM EST Sun Mar 2 2025

.SYNOPSIS...
High pressure builds in through Monday, moving off the coast
Monday night and Tuesday. Strong low pressure tracks through the 
Great Lakes and into Canada Tuesday night into Wednesday, sending 
a warm front through the area Wednesday morning. A cold front then
follows into Wednesday night. The system pulls away Thursday, 
with high pressure building in as it passes to the south through 
Friday. Another frontal system approaches and impacts the area 
over the weekend.

&&

.NEAR TERM /UNTIL 6 AM MONDAY MORNING/...
Clear skies and lightening winds to start the evening will 
largely persist as high pressure slides over the region, 
setting up a relatively cold March night. Forecast remains on 
track and previous discussion follows.

The upper trough axis was moving through the region late this
afternoon as seen on the water vapor satellite loops. A 
shortwave trough does move into the longwave trough through late
tonight into early Monday, and may be accompanied with some 
high cloudiness.

Another cold night is expected as the core of the cold airmass
moves through the region. Tonight will be colder across most
locations than Saturday night as winds become lighter, and
possibly decouple late. and with little cloud cover, allowing
for some radiational cooling. Lows will average about 10 degrees
below normal.

&&

.SHORT TERM /6 AM MONDAY MORNING THROUGH TUESDAY/...
Warm air advection sets up early Monday, and continues through
Tuesday, as winds gradually shift to the west, southwest, and
then south by Tuesday. Upper height rise Monday into Monday
night as surface high pressure builds over the region, moving
off the coast late Monday night into Tuesday. Temperatures
moderate Monday through Tuesday, rising above normal by Tuesday.

&&

.LONG TERM /TUESDAY NIGHT THROUGH SUNDAY/...
Key Points:

* Moderate to locally heavy rainfall expected on Wednesday, tapering 
  off to showery conditions Thursday. 

* Turning brisk late week, with a return of more seasonable 
  temperatures. 

Active start to the period as strong low pressure slides through the 
upper Great Lakes on Wednesday and into Ontario Wednesday night. 
Associated warm front lifts thru locally Wed AM, with moderate to 
locally heavy warm conveyor belt rainfall expected via large scale 
ascent/WAA/moisture transport in the warm sector, then a cold 
frontal passage Wed night. Locally heavy rainfall possible. Not 
entirely out of the question a bit of elevated CAPE produces some 
isolated thunder Wed night as well, but thinking this activity will 
be limited at best if it does occur, and have omitted mention with 
this forecast. QPF averages around an inch based on global ensemble 
means, with perhaps some localized amount aoa 1.5 inches. In 
addition, a potent 925 mb LLJ progged at 70 to 80 kt in soundings is 
expected to pass over portions of the area, leading to strong S 
winds gusting to at least 40 mph, especially for NYC metro and the 
coast Wed afternoon/evening, even with a sfc-based inversion. Temps 
Wednesday will be on the mild side, with highs in the 50s and 
possibly nearing 60 in the urban corridor of NE NJ. 

Associated cold front passes through late Wed night into Thu 
morning, with lingering showers possible through the day on Thu, 
especially over S CT and Long Island, as the parent upper trough 
passes through. Brisk and colder conditions expected for Thu 
night/Fri as a secondary low develops E of New England ad increases 
the sfc pressure gradient, with temps returning to near or slightly 
below normal. 

After the upper trough associated with the midweek system pulls away 
from the area, the flow aloft becomes zonal over the eastern US. An 
embedded shortwave trough in the flow should send a fast-moving low 
eastward from the mid Mississippi Valley Fri night to the Mid 
Atlantic coast by Sat night. System appears relatively weak and 
progressive with the flow, but depending on temperatures, could
bring a bit of light rain or snow to the region.

&&

.AVIATION /00Z MONDAY THROUGH FRIDAY/...
High pressure will continue to build in through the TAF period.

VFR conditions are expected. NW winds near 10-12 kt with gusts
near 20 kt diminish this evening with generally NW flow
thereafter near 5-10 kt. Winds shift to SW Monday night near 5-7
kts.

 ...NY Metro (KEWR/KLGA/KJFK/KTEB) TAF Uncertainty...

Timing of gusts this evening could be off by 1-2 hours. Gusts
could be more occasional in frequency this evening.

.OUTLOOK FOR 00Z TUESDAY THROUGH FRIDAY...

Monday night: VFR.

Tuesday: VFR. SW winds G15-20kt.

Tuesday night: Chance of rain showers late mainly well NW of 
the NYC metro terminals, with MVFR possible. S winds G15-20 kt 
at some of the coastal terminals. 

Wednesday: Rain with IFR/LIFR at times and LLWS expected. S 
winds G20-25kt in the morning, increasing to G30-35kt late
morning through evening. Gusts lower overnight into early
Thursday.

Thursday: Chance of rain showers with MVFR possible. W winds 
G20kt in the afternoon, becoming NW G25-30kt at night. 

Friday: VFR. NW wind gusts near 30 kt, gradually diminishing at
night.

Detailed information, including hourly TAF wind component
forecasts, can be found at: https:/www.weather.gov/zny/n90

&&

.MARINE...
Small Craft Advisory remains on ocean waters east of Moriches 
Inlet until 1100 PM EST with lingering seas around 5 ft. Once 
seas subside this evening, winds and seas remain below advisory 
levels across the forecast waters until late day Tuesday. With 
an increasing southerly flow ahead of an approaching frontal 
system Tuesday, gusts and seas may be near SCA levels by late 
day Tuesday on the ocean waters.

Strengthening S flow Tuesday night as high pressure shifts offshore. 
The flow ramps up quickly on Wed, SCA cond develop on the ocean in 
the morning and the non ocean waters by afternoon, with gusts at 
least 25 to 30 kt continuing into Wed night. Potential for S gale 
force gusts 35 to 40 kt Wed afternoon/evening, especially on ocean 
waters. Meanwhile ocean seas should build to 4 to 6 ft by midday, 7 
to 10 ft by evening, and peaking at 10 to 13 ft by midnight Wed 
night.

Winds begin to lower daytime Thursday after a cold frontal passage, 
but hazardous seas of 8 to 12 ft continue on the ocean, lowering 
slightly to 7 to 10 ft Thursday afternoon/night. Then as low 
pressure to the east intensifies, NW flow gusting to 25 to 30 kt 
should return to all waters Thu night, with gales possible once 
again on Friday.

&&

.HYDROLOGY...
A frontal system impacts the region Wednesday and Wednesday night 
and is expected to produce around an inch of rainfall, with 
localized totals up to 1.5 inches possible. The heaviest, steadiest 
of the precipitation is expected Wed afternoon and evening, but 
rainfall rates likely preclude anything other than nuisance minor 
flooding. WPC continues to outline a marginal risk of excessive
rainfall for the area.

&&

.OKX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CT...None.
NY...None.
NJ...None.
MARINE...Small Craft Advisory until 11 PM EST this evening for ANZ350.

&&

$$

SYNOPSIS...DR/MET
NEAR TERM...DR/MET
SHORT TERM...MET
LONG TERM...DR
AVIATION...JM
MARINE...DR/MET
HYDROLOGY...DR/MET
