842 
FXUS61 KOKX 010855
AFDOKX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service New York NY
455 AM EDT Tue Jul 1 2025

.SYNOPSIS...
A cold front approaches later today and pivots through late tonight 
into Wednesday morning. Another cold front approaches Thursday and 
moves through the area Thursday evening followed by high pressure 
building into the area during Friday and into the weekend. Another 
frontal system may impact the area early next week. 

&&

.NEAR TERM /THROUGH TONIGHT/...
A good deal of cloud cover will be around through at least mid 
morning to late morning with debris from previous shower and 
convective activity. The a pre-frontal trough sets up across the 
western portion of the area for the afternoon. At the same time 
thickness ridging works into the area with a very moisture rich and 
warm air mass settled in with 576+ thickness values, quite sultry. 
Fairly confident that hazy sunshine breaks through with the entire 
region deeply in the warm sector. It will be close to heat advisory 
criteria across the urban corridor of NE NJ, NYC, into urban 
Westchester and urban portions of SW CT. Heat index values should 
get into the middle and a few upper 90s in all likelihood. Perhaps a 
few spots could get to 99 or 100 heat index values for an hour late 
in the day but this would be very short lived and lacks the 
coverage, thus no heat advisory is issued. In any event, hot and 
humid conditions throughout the region with 80s even along the coast 
with high dew points resulting in near 90 heat index values 
even near the water. The question around convection is how soon 
does it initiate this afternoon as the CAMs are not consistent 
with the start time. One issue is some CAMs are having trouble 
as to whether to have the pre-frontal trough as the main 
trigger, or the actual cold front further off to the west. With 
the timing of things slightly slower leaning towards the pre-
frontal trough being the main initiator of strong to possibly 
severe convection for the afternoon and evening. There could be 
another pulse of convection later in the evening / night, but it
would likely be primarily non- severe as previous activity may 
have worked thing over a little and also getting away from the 
peak diurnal heating later at night with the arrival of the 
actual cold front. SPC has a marginal risk of severe weather for
the eastern 2/3rds of the area and a slight risk confined 
mainly to the NE NJ zones. The primary hazard with any strong to
severe convection will be strong to potentially damaging wind 
gusts. The limiting factor to widespread severe storms looks to 
be marginal mid-level lapse rates and marginal shear values 
close to 30 kt depending on the guidance one looks at. WPC has 
slight risk of excessive rainfall across much of the area, and a
marginal risk across mainly across the eastern and northern 
portions of the area. Training / repeating storms would be the 
culprit if flash flooding were to take place, but at this point 
leaning more towards a localized urban related risk due to high 
instantaneous rainfall rates. Also see the Hydro section for 
further information.

Kept PoPs elevated all night long based on the newest data with 
things progressing a tad slower, with higher POPs east into the 
overnight. With the cold front more or less slowing late at night 
look for a damp and cloudy, muggy night with temperatures remaining 
primarily in the 70s with dewpoint readings remaining elevated.

&&

.SHORT TERM /WEDNESDAY THROUGH WEDNESDAY NIGHT/...
Clouds remain into Wednesday morning as the front struggles to get 
further east. Western most location should begin to clear sooner 
than eastern sections. Chance showers remain for most of the morning 
across eastern most sections, primarily east of the metro. Toward 
mid day PoPs really trail off with only a slight chance of lingering 
showers across eastern most sections during the afternoon. Dew point 
readings will remain elevated and only lower slightly, mainly across 
NW sections later in the day. Temperatures overall will be a tad 
cooler with mainly middle 80s, with some lower 80s closer to the 
coast on a light W to SW wind. More of a sea breeze influence is 
anticipated further southeast and along the coast in the afternoon 
with a light synoptic gradient and the front more or less washing 
out nearby. Cannot totally rule out an isolate shower or storm in 
the afternoon as hinted by some CAMs, but have kept this out of the 
forecast wording for the time being.

For Wednesday night clouds get further east and mainly offshore late 
with only a subtle drop in humidity was dewpoint remain primarily in 
the middle 60s across much of the area. Thus temperatures should 
only fall into the middle and upper 60s in most places, with lower 
70s in the metro, with perhaps a little patchy fog in the outlying 
areas possible.

&&

.LONG TERM /THURSDAY THROUGH MONDAY/...
No significant changes were made to the extended forecast with only 
a few minor edits made to NBM guidance.

&&

.AVIATION /09Z TUESDAY THROUGH SATURDAY/...
A cold front slowly approaches from the west today and stalls over 
the area during Wednesday morning.

Categories at mostly VFR through the morning push with some MVFR 
before approx 12z. VFR otherwise thereafter outside of 
afternoon/evening showers and potential thunderstorms. 

Winds mostly SW 5-10kt, increasing to 10-15kt this afternoon. Winds 
then become lighter tonight as they shift more westerly.

 ...NY Metro (KEWR/KLGA/KJFK/KTEB) TAF Uncertainty...

Brief IFR cannot be completely ruled out before 11-12z, but is not 
likely. Timing of potential shra/tstm this afternoon to early 
evening may be off by an hour or two. MVFR conditions could prevail 
tonight instead of VFR.

Occasional wind gusts around 20 kt possible for a couple of hours 
before indicated in TAFs.

.OUTLOOK FOR 06Z WEDNESDAY THROUGH SATURDAY... 

Late tonight: Mostly VFR to MVFR with -shra, chance of IFR east of 
the city terminals.

Wednesday: Mainly VFR.

Thursday: Possible showers and thunderstorms with brief MVFR or 
lower possible day into early eve, higher chances north and west of 
NYC terminals.

Friday: VFR.

Saturday: VFR.

Detailed information, including hourly TAF wind component
forecasts, can be found at: https:/www.weather.gov/zny/n90

&&

.MARINE...
As a cold front approaches a southerly flow increases today as ocean 
seas will build mostly to 4 to 5 ft with gusts of 20 to 25 kt 
resulting in small craft conditions on the ocean, with sub advisory 
conditions on the western non-ocean waters. Also, the eastern non-
ocean waters should fall just short of small craft criteria later 
today into this evening with perhaps an occasional gust to around 25 
kt. 

For Wednesday sub advisory conditions should return on the ocean 
with a W to SW wind and ocean seas mainly remaining at around 4 ft. 
Generally tranquil conditions Wednesday night through Saturday will 
result in sub-SCA on all waters.

&&

.HYDROLOGY...
There remains a marginal to slight risk of excessive rainfall via 
WPC for today and tonight. With high precipitable water in place 
instantaneous rain rates are likely to be high, leading to a 
localized risk of flash flooding in association with any stronger 
thunderstorms. Repeating and training cells would have to take place 
for the risk of localized flash flooding to be realized as there 
will be a uniform SW flow through the column with speeds getting 
over 30 kt in the mid levels. Overall the risk of flash flooding 
looks limited in coverage, and should remain localized and confined 
to mostly urban locations. More widespread flooding would become 
more of a risk only if rainfall rates can overachieve for multiple 
hours.

&&

.TIDES/COASTAL FLOODING...
There is a high risk of rip currents on Tuesday, and this should 
also be the case into Wednesday with wave heights not coming down 
much, along with a lingering 9 second easterly swell component. 
Thus, continuing with the high rip current risk at least through 
this evening, and potentially being extended at some point into 
Wednesday.

&&

.OKX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CT...None.
NY...High Risk for Rip Currents through this evening for NYZ075-080-081-
     178-179.
NJ...None.
MARINE...Small Craft Advisory from 11 AM this morning to 6 AM EDT 
     Wednesday for ANZ350-353.
     Small Craft Advisory from 11 AM this morning to 2 AM EDT 
     Wednesday for ANZ355.

&&

$$

SYNOPSIS...JE
NEAR TERM...JE
SHORT TERM...JE
LONG TERM...
AVIATION...JC
MARINE...JE
HYDROLOGY...JE
TIDES/COASTAL FLOODING...
