727 
FXUS61 KOKX 081037
AFDOKX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service New York NY
537 AM EST Wed Jan 8 2025

.SYNOPSIS...
Low pressure remains stalled up to our north across the Canadian 
Maritimes as high pressure builds very slowly out of the west through
Friday. Low pressure passes to the south and east Saturday into 
Saturday night. High pressure then builds in for Sunday and 
weakens over the area early next week.

&&

.NEAR TERM /THROUGH TONIGHT/...
Raised temps a degree or two for the next few hours as strong
mixing has kept actual air temps up a little bit, but with the
wind gusting it is just a minor detail with widespread teens to
around 10 degree wind chills. Forecast remains on track.

Reinforcing shots of cP air will continue to rotate through via the 
northern branch of the jet stream. The first reinforcing shot of 
cold air pivots through today in the wake of a shortwave. A stalled 
upper level low remains across the Canadian Maritimes. This has 
resulting in a persistent NW flow regime, and this only continues. 
The winds at the sfc will be primarily out of the WNW. Expect 
another dry, but gusty day as the winds will gust 35 to 40 mph 
quite often in a lot of places. With dew point readings primarily
in the single digits it will remain quite dry and cold. Temperatures
will run a good 12 to 15 degrees below normal with highs only 
reaching the middle and upper 20s. However, with the wind it 
feel 10 to 15 degrees colder with wind chills primarily in the 
teens, and close to 10 above across the NW interior.

For tonight quite cold once again with mainly clear skies to start. 
Another cold and blustery night. The winds will subside slightly for 
the late evening, but then behind a shortwave the winds will pick up 
again after 6z; probably closer to 9 and 10z. Clouds arrive towards 
and just after midnight, with skies becoming mostly cloudy late at 
night as the trough, weak frontal boundary and accompanying 
shortwave pushes through. This will be another reinforcing shot of 
cold air behind the trough into Thursday morning. Lows will be 
primarily in the teens, with perhaps a few lower 20s in the NYC 
metro. However, the wind will make it feel like single digits once 
again, with some wind chills approaching zero in the far northern 
portions of the area towards daybreak as the winds start to gust 
over 35 mph.

&&

.SHORT TERM /THURSDAY THROUGH FRIDAY/...
After some morning clouds look for clearing skies into the 
afternoon. Another dry, windy, and cold day on tap with temperatures 
struggling to reach freezing at the coast, and likely not getting 
out of the upper 20s further north and northwest. Wind chills will 
run in the teens to around 20. The winds will be the story, as the 
some gusts should get close to advisory criteria. An inversion shown 
in the forecast soundings make preclude some of the stronger gusts
from getting all the way down. However at the top of the mixed 
layer gusts do approach 40 kts. Later shifts will have to 
evaluate, but a wind advisory may be needed for the day Thursday
and perhaps into early Thursday evening. Used NBM 90th percentile
wind / wind gusts for the most part as much of the non-raw 
guidance appeared to be too light with the winds.

Some subtle height rises are progged ahead of the next feature for 
late Thursday night and into Friday. The cP air mass will undergo 
some modification, especially into the day Friday. Lows Thursday 
night with a gusty NW wind continuing, although the stronger wind 
gusts will subside will be in the upper teens to middle 20s, with 
the wind making it feel about 10 degrees colder. During the day 
Friday look for temperatures to get closer to normal, but likely 
ending up a few degrees below as max temps should get into the 
middle and upper 30s as all places should get above freezing. The 
winds will continue to gradually lighten through the day as the 
pressure gradient continues to weaken. After a mostly sunny start, 
look for more in the way of high clouds as cirrus streaks in during 
the afternoon in advance of a strong confluent trough developing 
upstream back to the southwest.

&&

.LONG TERM /FRIDAY NIGHT THROUGH TUESDAY/...
Models are in good agreement regarding the upper and surface 
features regarding the next storm system. A lack of phasing of 
northern and southern stream troughs leads to low pressure emerging 
off the Carolina coast late Friday night into Saturday morning, with 
the strengthening storm passing well south and east of the 40N/70W 
benchmark Saturday afternoon into evening. Enough guidance shows a 
complete or near-miss of the precip shield reaching the southern
zones, thus PoPs remain capped at chance late Friday night 
through Saturday afternoon. Overall higher chances will be 
across the southern zones - closer to the offshore storm. Even 
if the northern periphery of its precip shield doesn't reach us,
can't completely rule out snow showers for the entire forecast 
area in association with the northern stream energy plus upper 
divergence with the left front quadrant of a strong jet streak 
shifting through. Should any snowfall occur Friday night through
Saturday, there's increasing confidence that accumulations 
would be light. 

High pressure builds in behind the system Saturday night through 
Sunday, then weakens over the region Monday and Tuesday. Dry through 
the period, but given guidance showing cyclonic flow aloft and 
potentially a surface trough nearby, maybe some flurries for 
Tuesday. Highs generally in the 30s each day in the long term.

&&

.AVIATION /12Z WEDNESDAY THROUGH SUNDAY/...
The terminals will remain between strong low pressure to the 
east and strong high pressure to the west.

VFR. 

Strong flow around 310 magnetic through the TAF period. Gusts around 
30kt through late this morning, then up to 40kt through the rest of 
the day. Gust speeds diminish tonight, but occasional gusts over 30kt 
will still be possible all night. 

 ...NY Metro (KEWR/KLGA/KJFK/KTEB) TAF Uncertainty...

Winds likely average right at 310 magnetic, but probably favor 
north/right of it through the day. A peak gust of around 45 kt is 
possible, most likely in the afternoon.


OUTLOOK FOR 06Z THURSDAY THROUGH SUNDAY...

Late tonight-Thursday: VFR. NW wind gusts near 30kt tonight, then 
near 40kt on Thursday.

Friday: VFR. NW wind gusts 20 kt in the morning.

Saturday: MVFR-IFR possible. Chance of snow. NW gusts 20 kt 
possible. 

Sunday: VFR. 

Detailed information, including hourly TAF wind component forecasts, 
can be found at: https:/www.weather.gov/zny/n90&&

&&

.MARINE...
Gale Warnings will be allowed to proceed through the day Thursday as 
a strong WNW-NW flow regime will continue to remain in place. At 
times the nearshore waters may fall below gale criteria, especially 
for this evening. However, the winds will pick up once again later 
at night and into Thursday morning. Solid gale conditions take place 
across all waters Thursday and into Thursday evening. Later Thursday 
night gale conditions will give way to small craft conditions as the 
winds gradually come down. Towards Friday look for ocean seas fall 
below 5 ft, but small craft gusts may linger into much of the 
morning before gusts fall below 25 kt during the afternoon.

Sub-advisory conditions likely continue through Saturday night, then 
SCA conditions will be possible Saturday night into Sunday with a 
pressure gradient tightening behind a storm strengthening well-
offshore.

&&

.HYDROLOGY...
No significant hydrologic issues anticipated through early next
week.

&&

.OKX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CT...None.
NY...None.
NJ...None.
MARINE...Gale Warning until 6 PM EST Thursday for ANZ331-332-335-338-
     340-345-350-353-355.

&&

$$

SYNOPSIS...JC/JE
NEAR TERM...JE
SHORT TERM...JE
LONG TERM...JC
AVIATION...JC
MARINE...JC/JE
HYDROLOGY...JC/JE
