827 
FXUS61 KOKX 092324
AFDOKX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service New York NY
724 PM EDT Wed Jul 9 2025

.SYNOPSIS...
A humid airmass will remain in place through Thursday, allowing for 
the potential development of showers and thunderstorms. There is
then a chance of daily showers and thunderstorms expected 
through Monday. A weak frontal system may pass to the north 
Sunday into Monday.

&&

.NEAR TERM /UNTIL 6 AM THURSDAY MORNING/...
The area will continue to destabilize this aftn. SBCAPE 
generally 1000-2500 J/kg per the 17Z HRRR analysis, with CIN 
eroding. With sea breeze boundaries, a weak trof, and falling 
heights, isold-sct tstm initiation possible into the early eve. 
Storm motion is modeled to be around 5kt, so there is a 
localized flood threat with any storms that develop, especially 
if redevelopment occurs along storm outflows in a primarily 
multicellular environment. The NAM models DCAPE in the 500-1000 
J/kg range, so with the EL at 43k ft in the OKX 12Z sounding, 
any storms aoa that lvl could produce some svr lvl downbursts. 

Widespread shwrs and tstms expected tngt as an h5 trof comes thru 
and provides some solid upr lvl support. Perhaps some bowing 
segments for an isold svr risk. Bands of hvy rainfall could produce 
some areas of mainly minor flooding as well. Model focus of the hvy 
rain is generally ern areas of LI where FFG is highest, somewhat 
limiting the overall threat. However, if the bands were to set up 
further W over the urban corridor, there would be a flash flood 
risk.

&&

.SHORT TERM /6 AM THURSDAY MORNING THROUGH THURSDAY NIGHT/...
Additional chances for shwrs and tstms on Thu as the upr trof and 
embedded shrtwv energy lingers in the area. Stuck with the NBM 
timing here, but if activity is robust early in the day as the NAM 
suggests, there could be limited action in the aftn where the 
airmass is worked over. However, if a mrng round doesn't develop, 
more extensive activity seems more likely in the aftn hours. A bit 
cloudy with onshore flow, so high temps 70s and 80s with max 
apparent temps mainly in the 80s.

As the upr trof axis passes E of the CWA Thu ngt, decreasing
chances for rain. With lgt llvl flow, moisture will remain in
place resulting in a humid ngt.

&&

.LONG TERM /FRIDAY THROUGH WEDNESDAY/...
Key Messages
- Showers and thunderstorms are a daily concern through 
Monday, thanks to a lingering boundary and plenty of moisture from 
the onshore flow. Western forecast areas are at the greatest risk, 
as daytime heating will boost instability.

- The greatest uncertainty in the forecast period, particularly for 
temperatures and PoPs, remains Sunday through Monday. This is 
attributed to the varied handling of a weak frontal system by the 
ensembles.

- Next week, temperatures are expected to warm up, reaching the mid 
80s to around 90 degrees. Lows in the upper 60s to mid-70s. ML 
guidance is hinting at a low (10-30%) threat for severe weather that 
will need to be monitored, along with a frontal system late in the 
week.

No major changes made to the NBM.

&&

.AVIATION /00Z THURSDAY THROUGH MONDAY/...
A stationary frontal boundary remains within the region through
Thursday morning, possibly moving north as a warm front Thursday
afternoon.

VFR through 04Z, with widely scattered showers or a thunderstorm
possible. After 04Z, scattered showers and thunderstorms
possible with MVFR. Thunderstorms are possible late tonight with
showers continuing into early Thursday morning. KGON may briefly
have IFR ceilings toward Thursday morning. VFR returns Thursday
morning, with a chance of showers, and isolated thunderstorms
late Thursday afternoon. There continues to be uncertainty with
the exact timing of showers and thunderstorms tonight, and
Thursday afternoon, although timing is a little more certain
tonight.

Winds will remain under 10kt generally from the south to
southwest this evening, and then becoming light and variable at
most locations late this evening through the overnight. A light
S to SE flow develops Thursday morning. A sea breeze is possible
at KJFK.


 ...NY Metro (KEWR/KLGA/KJFK/KTEB) TAF Uncertainty... 

Amendments likely to refine the timing of showers and
thunderstorms tonight and again Thursday afternoon, which could
vary by a couple of hours from the forecast.


.OUTLOOK FOR 00Z FRIDAY THROUGH MONDAY... 

Thursday night: Chance of showers and thunderstorms during the
early evening with MVFR possible. Otherwise VFR.

Friday - Sunday: VFR. A chance of showers and thunderstorms during 
the afternoon and early evening near and northwest of the NYC 
terminals with MVFR possible.

Monday: VFR. A chance of showers and thunderstorms with MVFR 
possible. 

Detailed information, including hourly TAF wind component forecasts, 
can be found at: https:/www.weather.gov/zny/n90

&&

.MARINE...
Outside of tstms, winds and seas are expected to remain blw sca lvls 
thru Thu. A weak pressure gradient into the upcoming weekend 
will keep winds and seas below SCA levels.

&&

.HYDROLOGY...
There is a risk for mainly minor urban and poor drainage flooding 
thru Thu with rounds of shwrs and tstms expected. Although not 
currently modeled, if the heaviest bands of rain set up over the 
more flood prone areas of NJ and the urban corridor, there will be a 
more substantial flash flood risk there.

&&

.TIDES/COASTAL FLOODING...
A moderate rip current risk is forecast at all ocean beaches
into this evening due to to incoming 3-4 ft/7-8s swell. The 
moderate risk continues for all but the NYC beaches for on
Thursday.

&&

.OKX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CT...None.
NY...None.
NJ...None.
MARINE...None.

&&

$$

SYNOPSIS...JMC/99
NEAR TERM...JMC
SHORT TERM...JMC
LONG TERM...99
AVIATION...MET
MARINE...JMC/99
HYDROLOGY...JMC/99
TIDES/COASTAL FLOODING...
