189 
FXUS61 KOKX 011238
AFDOKX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service New York NY
738 AM EST Sat Mar 1 2025

.SYNOPSIS...
A cold front will move through this afternoon. High pressure
will then build in through Monday, moving off the coast by
Tuesday. As strong low pressure moves northeast toward the 
upper Great Lakes, a warm front will approach Tuesday night and 
move through Wednesday morning, followed by an cold front
Wednesday night. Secondary low pressure may develop nearby on 
Thursday and pass east of of New England on Friday as high 
pressure attempts to build from the west.

&&

.NEAR TERM /THROUGH TONIGHT/...
Low pressure passes to the north today dragging through the area
this afternoon. There have been some light returns at times 
across the interior early this morning, but nothing more than a 
few sprinkles are possible. The cold front should begin moving 
through the Lower Hudson Valley shortly after midday before 
sweeping across the rest of the area by sunset. A brief shower 
is possible late morning and then again with the frontal passage
this afternoon. Breezy conditions are expected ahead of the 
front along with temperatures rising into the lower and middle 
50s across the area. With the flow becoming SW right ahead of 
the front, some locations in the NYC metro could reach the upper
50s to around 60. 

Once the cold front passes, temperatures will begin to fall and
NW winds will increase as the cold advection gets underway. 
Cannot completely rule out a trailing shower with a few wet 
snowflakes or graupel before sundown well inland. Temperatures 
will then continue to fall through the rest of the night as 850 
mb temperatures drop down to a range from -16C to -20C by 
sunrise Sunday morning. The strongest winds will likely occur 
the first half of the night with sustained speeds 15-25 mph with
gusts 30-35 mph. There could be a few gusts close to 40 mph 
immediately behind the cold front passage. Gusts should settle 
to 20-25 mph by day break Sunday. Lows look to range from the 
mid teens inland to around 20 closer to the coast. The winds 
will make it feel like it is in the single digits early Sunday 
morning.

&&

.SHORT TERM /SUNDAY THROUGH MONDAY NIGHT/...
The main story for this period will be unseasonably cold 
conditions. High pressure continues to build towards the area on
Sunday, but there will be enough of a pressure gradient to 
support another blustery day. NW winds are likely to gust 20-25 
mph into the afternoon. Guidance has been trending colder over 
the last several cycles, which makes sense given the anomalous 
nature of the air mass. 850 mb temperatures are progged to be 
close to the lowest observed across the area on March 2 per the 
SPC Sounding Climatology. A full day of early March sunshine in
combination with downsloping NW flow will give temperatures a 
bit of a boost from the morning temperatures. Afternoon highs
should reach the mid-upper 20s inland and lower 30s closer to 
the coast. The current forecast has the NYC metro and much of
Long Island briefly rising above freezing, but it is possible
temperatures do not exceed 32 degrees. Wind chills will be in 
the teens to low 20s in the afternoon. 

The high pressure will settle over the northeast Sunday night.
Outlying areas should decouple, but coastal areas may still have
a light breeze through the night with the center of the high 
still to the west. Lows will range from around 10 inland to the 
middle and upper teens closer to the coast. Min wind chills by 
day break Monday morning look similar to Sunday morning, mainly 
in the single digits. The high remains overhead on Monday before
moving offshore by early Tuesday morning. Some moderation of 
the air mass is likely allowing temperatures to reach the middle
and upper 30s for highs on Monday. Lows on Monday night will 
also be warmer than Sunday night and generally in the 20s across
the region.

&&

.LONG TERM /TUESDAY THROUGH FRIDAY/...
Key Points:

* Temperatures will be on the mild side from Tuesday through 
  Thursday. 

* A long duration moderate to locally heavy rainfall event will
  take place from Tuesday night into Thursday with the approach
  of a frontal system associated with strong low pressure 
  moving through the upper Great Lakes. 

Global models remain in close enough agreement to stay close to
the NBM guidance with some adjustments. 

A deep closed low over the Plains states will move E to the mid 
Mississippi Valley by Wed AM, while downstream ridging builds
over the area, with sfc high pressure moving farther out into 
the Atlantic. Return flow and rising heights aloft will lead to 
a milder day, with temps a good 10-15 degrees warmer than those 
of Monday, from the mid 40s to lower 50s. A leading warm front 
will approach Tue night and move through Wed AM with some light 
to moderate rain. Large scale warm advection in a deep-layered S
flow after warm fropa will continue to transport Gulf and 
Atlantic moisture into the area, with the potential for bands of
moderate to heavy rain Wed into Wed evening, with slight chance
of thunder. High temps on Wed should be even milder, with 
widespread 50s per NBM 75th percentile and possibly reaching 60 
in parts of NE NJ. 

The associated cold front will pass through late Wed night into
Thu morning, with lingering showers possible through the day 
especially over S CT and Long Island with the upper trough 
passing overhead. ECMWF indicates possible secondary low 
formation nearby, which could lead to more prolonged precip 
mainly S CT and Long Island (rain mixing with or changing to 
snow) and strong NW winds throughout Thu night into Fri as the 
low pulls E of New England. Fri should be mainly dry and brisk, 
with temps closer to average.

&&

.AVIATION /13Z SATURDAY THROUGH WEDNESDAY/...
VFR as low pressure passes to the north today, dragging a
strong cold across this afternoon. 

S winds under 10 kt should become SW 10-15G20 kt late this
morning ahead of the approaching cold front. Winds then shift W
and increasing further immediately after fropa. Gusts around 30
kt expected after fropa until about 23Z-24Z, with some peak 
gusts up to 35 kt are possible from about 19Z-22Z. It is
possible these stronger winds could last longer into this
evening, otherwise winds veer NW 15-20G25-30kt this evening,
diminishing slightly after midnight. 

 ...NY Metro (KEWR/KLGA/KJFK/KTEB) TAF Uncertainty...

A few gusts up to 35 kt may be possible from about 19Z-23Z.

.OUTLOOK FOR 06Z SUNDAY THROUGH WEDNESDAY...

Sunday: VFR. NW winds G20-25kt. 

Monday: VFR.

Tuesday: VFR. S winds G15-20kt in the afternoon. 

Tuesday night: Chance of rain. MVFR cond possible. 

Wednesday: Rain with IFR/LIFR cond expected. S winds G20-30 kt 
and LLWS. Slight chance of a tstm in the evening. 

Detailed information, including hourly TAF wind component
forecasts, can be found at: https:/www.weather.gov/zny/n90

&&

.MARINE...
SCA conditions will continue on the ocean through this afternoon
and develop on the Sound, Bays, and NY Harbor late this morning
due to strengthening southerly flow. A cold front passes across
the waters late this afternoon shifting the winds to the NW and
increasing wind gusts to around 30 kt on the Sound, Bay, and 
Harbor and around 35 kt on the ocean. The strongest winds on the
ocean look to occur in a short period generally from 6pm this 
evening through 1am Sunday. Have issued a gale warning for this 
time period on the ocean. An isolated gale gust cannot be ruled 
out on the non-ocean waters, but have held off on a gale warning
for now. Elevated ocean seas are expected today, 5-8 ft, 
continuing into tonight before subsiding on Sunday. Waves on the
Sound may also reach 3-4 ft tonight. Winds will also subside 
below SCA on the non-ocean Sunday morning, but could linger into
early afternoon on the ocean. Conditions will be below SCA 
levels late Sunday through Monday night with high pressure 
building over the waters. Light freezing spray is expected late
tonight through Sunday.

SCA cond likely to develop on all waters daytime Wed as S flow 
increases, with gusts 25-30 kt and ocean seas building from 2-3
ft early in the morning to 6-8 ft by evening. Some minimal gale
force gusts up to 35 are possible on the ocean Wed night as 
seas build further, reaching 9-12 ft by late Wed night.

&&

.HYDROLOGY...
A frontal system should bring about 1.0-1.5 inches of rain from
Tue night into Thu. Potential for locally higher amounts closer
to 2 inches exists with any heavier rain bands Wed 
afternoon/evening.

&&

.OKX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CT...None.
NY...None.
NJ...None.
MARINE...Small Craft Advisory until 6 AM EST Sunday for ANZ331-332-335-
     338-340-345.
     Small Craft Advisory until 6 PM EST this evening for ANZ350-
     353-355.
     Gale Warning from 6 PM this evening to 1 AM EST Sunday for 
     ANZ350-353-355.

&&

$$

SYNOPSIS...BG/DS
NEAR TERM...BG/DS
SHORT TERM...DS
LONG TERM...BG
AVIATION...BG
MARINE...BG/DS
HYDROLOGY...BG/DS
