993 
FXUS61 KOKX 252338
AFDOKX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service New York NY
738 PM EDT Mon Aug 25 2025

.SYNOPSIS...
A cold front moves through the region and pushes offshore into this 
evening. A weak secondary front pivots through late Tuesday, before
high pressure gradually builds in through midweek. A cold frontal 
passage on Friday allows for additional high pressure to build in
through the weekend.

&&

.NEAR TERM /UNTIL 6 AM TUESDAY MORNING/...
Cold front continues to gradually track through the area from 
west to east into this evening. 

A bit humid ahead of the boundary with dew points in the 60s, and 
radar observations and a couple MPING reports indicate widely 
isolated sprinkles or light rain around across southern CT or LI, 
but most should remain dry through the rest of the day.

Behind the fropa, drier air is punching in, with dew pts at NYC 
terminals falling 10 or 15 degrees, already down into the mid 40s at 
KLGA. With the exception of some diurnal cu, skies are largely 
clearing out behind it as well, helping temperatures to climb into 
the mid 80s, or several degrees above normal for late August. Deep 
mixing behind the boundary is also producing 20 to 25 mph gusts as 
the flow turns westerly, and these should persist into early evening.

Cooler, drier air continues to filter in tonight, with a noticeable 
drop in humidity for areas that haven't yet seen it. Winds will be 
light out of the NW, perhaps going calm at times with an overall 
weak synoptic gradient. Given the lighter flow and predominantly
clear skies, expect a cooler night than recent ones, falling 
into the 50s across the interior and outlying locales, and low 
to mid 60s elsewhere.

&&

.SHORT TERM /6 AM TUESDAY MORNING THROUGH TUESDAY NIGHT/...
Mid level trough remains situated over the eastern third of the
CONUS, with sprawling surface high pressure centered over the 
Central US building east through midweek.

A drier, bit cooler, air mass ushers in Tuesday behind the cold
frontal passage. Dew pts fall from the 60s and 70s on Monday, 
down into the 40s and 50s, offering a much more comfortable and 
pleasant feel to the air. Afternoon temperatures top out into 
the upper 70s or lower 80s for most, just about near normal for 
the time of year. Diurnal heating and cold pool aloft should 
yield a fair amount of cu development by the afternoon, and 
increased sky cover over NBM more in line with hi res guidance. 
Also lowered dew pts a good 5 degrees or more given the very 
well mixed BL above 700 mb, and expect a few gusts from time to
time toward 20 mph.

Weak secondary front or surface trough pivots through late Tuesday,
reinforcing the air mass, and perhaps leading to a bit more
cloud cover into Tuesday night, but conditions remain dry. A few
outlying locales could see temperatures approach the upper 40s 
by daybreak Wednesday.

&&

.LONG TERM /WEDNESDAY THROUGH MONDAY/...
An upr trof will remain over the region Wed and Thu. Despite the 
steep lapse rates, limited moisture is expected to preclude the 
development of shwrs attm. The modeling in the GFS, NAM, ECMWF and 
NBM are dry. 

Chances for shwrs increase Thu ngt as strong shrtwv energy begins to 
reach the area ahead of an h5 low tracking across ON/QC. The 
associated cold front is slow moving, and is modeled by the 12Z GFS 
to pass on Fri. The 00Z ECMWF was slower, adding a degree of 
uncertainty. The NBM nevertheless is closer to the faster GFS, and 
stuck with this for the fcst. Chances for shwrs and embedded tstms 
with the fropa.

The front clears out on Sat, bringing cool and dry wx thru Labor 
Day. If the front slows, there could be some lingering shwrs on Sat, 
particularly early. As of now there are only some 15-20 pops for ern 
areas per the NBM. Temps blw climo, with the NBM followed. Some of 
the colder interior spots could see lows drop into the upr 40s Sat 
and Sun ngt.

&&

.AVIATION /23Z MONDAY THROUGH SATURDAY/...
A cold front has pushed passed most terminals. It should arrive
at KISP within the hour and pass through KGON by 03Z. High 
pressure noses in from the SW on Tuesday with a weak surface 
trough developing across the area.

VFR. A few weakening showers may reach terminals N & W of NYC
tomorrow evening, but chances are too low to include in TAFs at
this time. Window of opportunity for this appears to be 22Z to 
06Z tomorrow evening and early night. 

Winds have mainly shifted W To WNW behind the front. SOme
terminals, especially city terminals may remain 10-15 kt with
gusts near 20 kts through 01-03Z. Winds will then drop below 10
kts and remain so at all terminal through the remainder of the
night and into the early morning tomorrow. Winds may be more NW
to WNW overnight. Winds will be NW to NNW tomorrow 6-11 kt.

 ...NY Metro (KEWR/KLGA/KJFK/KTEB) TAF Uncertainty...

W to NW wind shift early tonight may be off by a few hours. 

Gusts will diminish into the evening and have been left in the
TAFs in a TEMPO group through 00Z-03Z.

Showers are possible tomorrow evening, but chances are too low 
to include in the TAFs, at this time. 

.OUTLOOK FOR 00Z WEDNESDAY THROUGH SATURDAY...

Tuesday Night - Thursday: VFR.

Thursday Night-Friday: Mainly VFR. Chance of showers and 
thunderstorms. 

Saturday: VFR.

Detailed information, including hourly TAF wind component forecasts, 
can be found at: https:/www.weather.gov/zny/n90

&&

.MARINE...
Increasing southerly swells today will build seas to 5 ft on 
the coastal ocean waters by early this evening. Small Craft
Advisory in effect here until 6 AM Tuesday. Seas fall back 
under 5 ft Tuesday morning, with winds and waves then expected 
to remain below advisory criteria through the remainder of the 
week.

&&

.HYDROLOGY...
There are no hydrologic concerns this week.

&&

.TIDES/COASTAL FLOODING...
A high rip current risk remains into this eve. Waves in the 2-4 ft 
range on Tue. A moderate risk has been forecast with NW flow in the 
mrng favoring steeper waves, and waves less in the aftn when winds 
are more favorable. There is a moderate risk for Wed.

&&

.OKX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CT...None.
NY...High Risk for Rip Currents until 8 PM EDT this evening for NYZ075-
     080-081-178-179.
NJ...None.
MARINE...Small Craft Advisory until 6 AM EDT Tuesday for ANZ350-353-355.

&&

$$

SYNOPSIS...JMC/DR
NEAR TERM...DR
SHORT TERM...DR
LONG TERM...JMC
AVIATION...BR
MARINE...JMC/DR
HYDROLOGY...JMC/DR
TIDES/COASTAL FLOODING...
