212 
FXUS61 KOKX 202007
AFDOKX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service New York NY
407 PM EDT Sun Jul 20 2025

.SYNOPSIS...
A warm front pushes through the area this morning, followed by 
a cold frontal passage this evening. High pressure builds in 
Monday into Tuesday, and centers over the area Tuesday night 
into Wednesday. The high shifts offshore Wednesday night into 
Thursday. A low passing into east Quebec Friday will bring 
through a cold front late Friday into Friday night.

&&

.NEAR TERM /UNTIL 6 AM MONDAY MORNING/...
Key Messages:

 * Isolated to scattered severe thunderstorms with damaging wind
   gusts possible late this afternoon through around 10pm.

A deep shortwave pivots towards northern New England this eve 
accompanied by left front quad of 70 kt ulj, with a cold front 
approaching from Central NY/PA. 

This forcing is allowing for scattered thunderstorms 
development ahead/along it in a marginal to moderately unstable 
and moderately sheared (0-6km bulk shear of 35 to 40 kt) 
environment across E PA and Central NY this afternoon. This 
environment with steep low-level lapse rates, high PWAT, and a 
bit of mid-level dry air entrainment potential is conditionally 
favorable for damaging wind gusts (60+ mph) from bowing line 
segments (15% probability w/i a 25 mile radius) across the local
Tri-State late this afternoon into evening. There is a 5% prob 
of 70 mph wind gusts w/i a 25 mile radius if convection can 
organize into bowing segments in a favorable downburst profile.

Limiting factors for severe coverage/intensity is a skinny CAPE
profile with weak mid- level lapse rates. A secondary large 
hail threat exists with any discrete cells and isolated tornado
threat with cell-boundary interactions. A Severe Thunderstorm 
Watch may be issued within the next hour or so.

Cold front, with showers and thunderstorms activity should slide 
east by midnight, with a much cooler and drier airmass filtered in 
behind the cold front on gusty NW flow. Lows tonight in the
lower 60s interior, to around 70 for the city/coast, with Tds 
dropping into the lower 60s by daybreak.

&&

.SHORT TERM /6 AM MONDAY MORNING THROUGH TUESDAY NIGHT/...
Polar trough/closed low slides into northern New England Monday
and then slides east through SE Canada Mon NIght. Mean 
troughing and NW flow aloft continues through Tuesday Night.

At the surface, initial cold front slides well east of the area
by Monday morning, with reinforcing Canadian cold front passing
through Mon aft/eve. 

A relatively tight gradient between developing Canadian 
Maritimes low and Canadian high pressure over Ontario, will have
a gusty caa NW flow 15-20g25 mph developing tonight and 
continue on Monday, remaining gusty into Monday Night. Highs on 
Monday expected to run slightly below seasonable despite 
abundant sunshine, with CAA through the day dropping 850 mb 
temps into the high single digits. Highs in the lower to mid 80s
for the coast, to upper 70s for interior, with Tds likely 
dropping into the 40s to lower 50s.

Potential for some radiational cooling conds across far 
outlying areas, but pressure gradient may be strong enough to 
keep temps from bottoming. Very comfortable temps in the 50s to 
lower 60s, but a few upper 40s possible across interior and pine
barrens if a period radiational cooling materializes. 

Canadian high pressure continues to sink SE over the region 
Tuesday into Tuesday Night, with temps running a few degrees 
below seasonable for late July. High in the upper 70s to lower 
80s area-wide with Tds in the 40s to around 50. Potential for 
more robust radiational cooling Tuesday NIght, with widespread 
lows in the 50s outside of the urban centers, and possibly a 
few upper 40s across interior and pine barrens.

&&

.LONG TERM /WEDNESDAY THROUGH SUNDAY/...
Key Messages:

 * Dry Wed through Thu night. 

 * Showers & thunderstorms possible with cold front Fri/Fri night 
then again from the front stalling to the south late on Sat.

 * Temps climb Wed into Thu. Heat index may exceed 100 by Fri. 

In the upper-levels, a ridge continues to amplify over the eastern 
US Wednesday into Wednesday night. This ridge then flattens Thursday 
into Thursday night. A series of midlevel shortwaves then pass 
Friday into the weekend. 

At the surface, high pressure remains the dominant feature centered 
over the area on Wednesday. This high then shifts offshore Wednesday 
night into Thursday. A low passing into east Quebec Friday moves 
into the North Atlantic Friday night into Saturday. This low brings 
through a cold front late Friday into Friday night. The cold front 
then stalls south of the area into Saturday.

Wednesday through Friday, temperatures will warm each day in 
response to the high moving east and higher heights aloft. Heat 
index values may exceed 95 on Thursday for parts of the area and 
even near 100 in select locations, then exceed 100 for large 
portions of the area on Friday with some spots exceeding 105. This 
means we should see solid heat advisory criteria on Friday with heat 
warning criteria possibly being met in some areas. The heat, while 
lower, will still be strong into Saturday.

Given ample heating, shortwave energy passing aloft, high dewpoints 
& atmospheric moisture, and lift from an approaching/passing cold 
front, scattered showers and thunderstorms are expected late Friday 
into early Friday night. Showers and thunderstorms will again be 
possible Saturday afternoon into early early Saturday night due to 
the front stalled nearby to the south with another shortwave passing 
aloft.

&&

.AVIATION /20Z SUNDAY THROUGH FRIDAY/...
A cold front approaches late this afternoon and moves through this 
evening.

Mainly VFR until an isolated-scattered line of convection moves 
through before 02Z along and ahead of the cold front, with a severe 
wind gust threat possible but confidence remains too low to include 
in TAFs at this time and wil. This thunderstorm chance is being 
handled with PROB30 for most terminals, this includes the city 
terminals. A tempo group for TSRA was used in TAFs for KSWF, KHPN, 
and KGON as the risk of thunderstorm occurrence is slightly higher 
for these terminals. The cold front will clear KSWF around 23Z, NYC 
terminals 00-01Z, and LI and CT terminals 01-02Z with any brief MVFR 
conditions quickly returning to VFR. 

S to SW winds for this afternoon mainly around 10kt. A few 
occasional gusts for the coastal terminals remains a possibility but 
was not included in TAFs for this afternoon. Winds become NW tonight 
behind the cold front 10-13kt with G20kt for city terminals 
overnight, with gusts less likely or more occasional for outlying 
terminals. NW gusts prevail at all terminals towards 13-14z on 
Monday morning.

 ...NY Metro (KEWR/KLGA/KJFK/KTEB) TAF Uncertainty...

Amendments may be needed for TSRA activity this afternoon and the 
first half of the evening (until 01-02z).

.OUTLOOK FOR 18Z MONDAY THROUGH FRIDAY... 

Monday: Mainly VFR. NW winds 10-15g20kt.

Monday night through Thursday: VFR. 

Friday: VFR likely through morning, possibly followed by periods of 
sub VFR in showers and thunderstorms for the afternoon and
evening.

Detailed information, including hourly TAF wind component forecasts, 
can be found at: https:/www.weather.gov/zny/n90

&&

.MARINE...
There is potential for a few strong to severe thunderstorms late 
this afternoon and evening. Locally stronger wind gusts and higher 
waves are possible in any thunderstorms.

Occasional nearshore gusts to 25 kt possible late tonight thru 
Monday evening in a gusty NW flow behind cold frontal passage.

Otherwise, winds and waves are expected to stay below Small Craft 
Advisory criteria late Monday Night through Wednesday Night as 
high pressure moves overhead. 

Winds may approach SCA gusts on waters both late Thursday a and then 
again late Friday with the cold front.

&&

.HYDROLOGY...
At this time, there are no hydrologic concerns through the week.

&&

.TIDES/COASTAL FLOODING...
A low rip current development risk is expected for all ocean 
beaches on Monday with a moisture of mainly 1 ft S/SE swells. 
Similarly a low rip current development risk is likely for 
Tuesday with developing 2 ft easterly wind wave and a series of 
1 ft S/SE swells. With that said, with a large tidal range due 
to an approaching new moon, rip development could be moderate a 
couple of hours either side of low tide. 

In addition, water levels may touch minor flood thresholds 
across the most vulnerable NY Harbor, southern and eastern 
NYC/LI bay, and W LI sound, locations during the evening high 
tide the next few days.

&&

.OKX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CT...None.
NY...None.
NJ...None.
MARINE...None.

&&

$$

SYNOPSIS...BR/NV
NEAR TERM...NV
SHORT TERM...NV
LONG TERM...BR
AVIATION...JE
MARINE...BR/NV
HYDROLOGY...BR/NV
TIDES/COASTAL FLOODING...
