609 
FXUS61 KOKX 160251
AFDOKX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service New York NY
1051 PM EDT Fri Aug 15 2025

.SYNOPSIS...
Canadian high pressure will build in through tonight, then slide off 
the coast on Saturday. A weak cold front will approach on Sunday, 
pass through Sunday night. High pressure from Southeast Canada 
will sink into New England and the Northeast US through midweek 
pushing a backdoor cold front through. Weak disturbances may 
approach from the west but high pressure is expected to dominate
through much of next week.

&&

.NEAR TERM /UNTIL 6 AM SATURDAY MORNING/...
High pressure continues to build into the area from SE Canada at the 
surface into tonight. However, increasing clouds are expected 
overnight due to upper-level flow changing with a weak embedded 
shortwave. Mainly dry conditions anticipated through tonight, 
though. Lows will be in the low 70s to mid 60s. Patchy fog will once 
again be a possibility for interior locations.

&&

.SHORT TERM /6 AM SATURDAY MORNING THROUGH SUNDAY NIGHT/...
Surface high pressure moves offshore on Saturday as heights aloft 
gradually drop with a passing shortwave. This, combined with onshore 
flow, will lead to slightly cooler highs on Saturday in the low/mid 
80s. The shortwave may enable a few isolated showers/storms well NW 
of NYC in the interior in the afternoon/evening. 

Saturday night, as the shortwave exits, mostly clear skies make 
their return with another chance for patchy fog, this time just for 
far eastern locations. Lows Saturday night will be in the mid 60s to 
low 70s. 

A cold front will approach the area on Sunday as high pressure 
pushes farther offshore. This will lead to warm & humid air getting 
advected in from SW flow. This, in combination with lift from the 
front, should allow for isolated to spotty showers/thunderstorms to 
develop Saturday afternoon & evening. For now, not overly optimistic 
on POP coverage. However, 12Z guidance shows potential for warmer, 
more unstable air in areas N&W of NYC with potential MUCAPE values 
between 1,500-2,500 J/kg. This in combination with 25-35 kt 0-6 km 
Bulk Shear, could potentially see isolated instances of strong to 
damaging wind gusts. However, not all guidance is consistent 
with higher shear values. CSU-MLP & CIPS Analog-Based probs 
continue to indicate a possible marginal severe risk. One thing 
that looks to be fighting against chances for severe weather is 
poor mid-level lapse rates. Confidence, one way or the other, 
should increase as the event falls within the timeframe of more 
CAMs. 

The front exits south Sunday night with a ridge gradually building 
in from the west, leading to dry conditions.

Highs on Sunday will be in the mid to upper 80s at the coast to the 
low 90s for western interior locations and the NYC metro. Lows 
Sunday night will be in the mid to upper 60s at the coast with 
northern interior areas cooler, closer to 60.

&&

.LONG TERM /MONDAY THROUGH FRIDAY/...
On Monday and through much of the first half of next week, the area 
will be positioned between a longwave ridge over much of the country 
with a trough over extreme southeastern Canada and the Canadian 
Maritimes with general NW flow overhead.

A high pressure system over Southeast Canada will slowly shift south 
into the Northeast US. This will push a backdoor cold front with a 
general NE surface flow by Monday morning. As the high pressure 
continues to slowly build north of the area, a persistent NE flow 
will keep temperatures cooler than average for much of the area 
through at least the middle of next week. 

A few weak disturbances in the flow may approach the area from the 
west by Tuesday or Wednesday. This may result in the possibility of 
some shower development, mainly for the western portions of the 
area, on Tuesday and Wednesday. Temperatures will still be below 
average with highs generally in the middle to upper 70s.

Global models are in decent agreement that by midweek the trough 
over the Canadian Maritimes deepens a bit which amplifies the 
surface ridge and high pressure over the area. By this time, 
Hurricane Erin should be steering northward over the Western 
Atlantic. The trough is expected to pull Erin northward and 
accelerate it northeast and out to sea. For forecasts and updates on 
Hurricane Erin, monitor the National Hurricane Center.

If high pressure remains in control through the end of the week, a 
persistent easterly to northeasterly flow will continue for the end 
of the week, providing for generally dry conditions with 
temperatures remaining at or below average.

&&

.AVIATION /03Z SATURDAY THROUGH WEDNESDAY/...
High pressure will build in from the north and east through the rest 
of the TAF period.

VFR conditions initially with NE-SE flow near 5-10 kt. Winds 
diminish tonight to near 5 kts or less.

Satellite imagery shows an area of stratus well offshore that 
advecting toward the coast. Timing and coverage is is still
uncertain, but do think that most terminals except KSWF (though
there is even potential for MVFR here) some period of MVFR or
possibly lower. Less of a chance for reduction in visibility,
but also not out of the question, especially coastal terminals.

Any MVFR conditions will return generally return to VFR by early
Saturday morning (some of the outlying terminals may see MVFR
linger towards mid morning). Thereafter, VFR conditions prevail
through the afternoon, with the potential for MVFR or lower 
Saturday night.

Winds look to be 10 kt or less through the TAF period. S to SE
winds tonight may go light and variable, especially outside the
metro terminals. KLGA may see more of an ENE winds overnight
into the morning hours, with KBDR and KGON more ESE which is
typical near the sound. Wind direction for Saturday will be S to
SE once again.

     NY Metro (KEWR/KLGA/KJFK/KTEB) TAF Uncertainty...

There is a good deal of uncertainty regarding MVFR or lower
conditions overnight. Amendments expected. Highest chance for
MVFR or lower is with KJFK. 

.OUTLOOK FOR 00Z SATURDAY THROUGH WEDNESDAY...

Saturday: Mainly VFR, except MVFR or lower in any isolated 
showers and thunderstorms late in the day mainly over NYC 
terminals and KSWF. 

Sunday: Mainly VFR. However, chance of MVFR or lower briefly with 
chances of showers and possibly a thunderstorm afternoon into 
evening. 

Monday and Tuesday: VFR. 

Wednesday: Chance of MVFR or lower briefly in showers.

Detailed information, including hourly TAF wind component forecasts, 
can be found at: https:/www.weather.gov/zny/n90

&&

.MARINE...
Quiet cond expected through the weekend, with seas no higher than 1 
ft on the protected waters and no higher than 2 ft on the ocean 
until late day Sunday, when a southerly Ambrose jet may build seas 
to 3 ft on the ocean waters.

Wind gusts may approach near SCA conditions on the ocean Monday 
under a NE flow with gusts approaching 25kt. Wave heights on the 
ocean will be building as well with waves near 3-5 feet. By Tuesday, 
increased swell from Erin is expected to raise wave heights to above 
SCA conditions on the ocean through the remainder of the week, 
possibly peaking at or above 10 feet by Thursday. Non-ocean zones 
stay below SCA thresholds.

&&

.HYDROLOGY...
There are no hydrologic concerns through the middle of next
week.

&&

.TIDES/COASTAL FLOODING...
A low rip current risk continues for the ocean beaches through
Saturday. Onshore SE winds will be less than 10 kt on Saturday,
with seas 2 ft at 8 sec generating surf no higher than 2 ft. A
stronger S/SW wind on Sunday up to 10-15kt along with increased
wave height toward afternoon will allow for a moderate risk of 
rip currents.

There is potential for dangerous surf and rip currents next 
week, mainly from Tuesday onward, as building long period swells
from Erin arrive. Minor coastal flooding and beach erosion may
also become possible during this time.

&&

.OKX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CT...None.
NY...None.
NJ...Air Quality Alert until 11 PM EDT this evening for NJZ002-004-
     006-103>108.
MARINE...None.

&&

$$

SYNOPSIS...BR/MW
NEAR TERM...BR
SHORT TERM...BR
LONG TERM...MW
AVIATION...JP
MARINE...BR/MW
HYDROLOGY...BR/MW
TIDES/COASTAL FLOODING...
