873 
FXUS61 KOKX 100806
AFDOKX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service New York NY
406 AM EDT Thu Jul 10 2025

.SYNOPSIS...
A stationary frontal boundary across the region through tonight 
eventually shifts farther south heading into the start of the 
weekend. High pressure builds east of the waters for the latter half 
of this weekend before weakening early next week.

&&

.NEAR TERM /UNTIL 6 PM THIS EVENING/...
A frontal boundary is stalled out across the region. Not much 
translational movement is expected through today with the front. 
Weak waves of low pressure travel along it.

Right rear quadrant of upper level jet is near the region through 
today. Mid level positive vorticity advection adds further forcing.

POPs for showers and thunderstorms remain through the day. 
Intermittent nature to the convection. 

Temperatures today with a slight decrease in 850mb temperatures and 
more shower and thunderstorm activity, a cooler but still very humid 
day expected.

Added in patchy fog going into early this morning especially in 
those areas that had more rain and thereby have more moisture laden 
grounds.

&&

.SHORT TERM /6 PM THIS EVENING THROUGH SATURDAY NIGHT/...
The convective coverage will be on a downward trend tonight as 
forcing decreases with the loss of daytime instability.

Upper level forcing decreases with jet streak moving farther 
northeast of the region tonight. Troughing pattern eventually 
transitions to more of a ridging pattern.

The frontal boundary weakens at the surface and eventually settles 
to the south of the region by the weekend.

The showers and thunderstorms have less coverage Friday and Saturday 
and will be driven more by the daytime instability and daytime 
troughing as well as low level convergence. The forcing aloft will 
be minimal as ridging becomes more apparent.

Daytime temperatures on a warming trend but will be limited as flow 
retains more of an easterly component.

Added in patchy fog for late tonight into early Friday morning with 
less winds and some radiational cooling allow for more low level 
saturation considering the continued humid environment.


&&

.LONG TERM /SUNDAY THROUGH WEDNESDAY/...
Key Messages
- Showers and thunderstorms are a daily concern through 
Monday, thanks to a lingering boundary and plenty of moisture from 
the onshore flow. Western forecast areas are at the greatest risk, 
as daytime heating will boost instability.

- The greatest uncertainty in the forecast period, particularly for 
temperatures and PoPs, remains Sunday through Monday. This is 
attributed to the varied handling of a weak frontal system by the 
ensembles.

- Next week, temperatures are expected to warm up, reaching the mid 
80s to around 90 degrees. Lows in the upper 60s to mid-70s. ML 
guidance is hinting at a low (10-30%) threat for severe weather that 
will need to be monitored, along with a frontal system late in the 
week.

No major changes made to the NBM.

&&

.AVIATION /08Z THURSDAY THROUGH MONDAY/...
A stationary frontal boundary remains near the terminals through 
tonight. 

Mainly VFR to start early this morning with some local IFR-LIFR 
across eastern Long Island and coastal CT. Complex of showers and 
thunderstorms has moved east of the area, but lingering showers are 
possible through at least day break. MVFR is otherwise expected 
around day break, but confidence in it prevailing is low so have 
gone with tempos at most sites except east of the NYC metros. 

VFR is anticipated this afternoon with a chance of showers and 
thunderstorms. Have left the PROB30 in place for NYC metro and Lower 
Hudson Valley terminals this afternoon and early evening. Coverage 
however may end up more isolated. Conditions should lower tonight 
with MVFR most sites and IFR or LIFR possible east of the NYC metro 
terminals. 

Mainly light winds this morning. A light W or SW flow may develop at 
NYC terminals after day break but winds should gradually become S-SE 
late morning into the afternoon remaining under 10 kt. 

 ...NY Metro (KEWR/KLGA/KJFK/KTEB) TAF Uncertainty... 

MVFR may prevail this morning and could linger a few hours longer 
than in TAF this afternoon. 

Some variability in wind direction is possible throughout the TAF 
period as wind speeds will overall be light. 

Amendments likely to refine the timing of showers and thunderstorms 
this afternoon and evening.

.OUTLOOK FOR 06Z FRIDAY THROUGH MONDAY... 

Thursday night: MVFR or lower possible.

Friday - Sunday: VFR. A chance of showers and thunderstorms during 
the afternoon and early evening near and northwest of the NYC 
terminals with MVFR possible.

Monday: VFR. A chance of showers and thunderstorms with MVFR 
possible. 

Detailed information, including hourly TAF wind component forecasts, 
can be found at: https:/www.weather.gov/zny/n90

&&

.MARINE...
No hazards are expected outside of thunderstorms as conditions are 
expected to remain below SCA thresholds. Some patchy fog will be 
possible into this morning as well as late tonight into early Friday 
morning, which could possibly be dense.

&&

.HYDROLOGY...
Minor risk for flash flooding with otherwise poor drainage, urban 
and low lying flooding with any thunderstorms in the short term. 
Today holds relatively higher chance of these thunderstorms with 
more coverage in the forecast.

&&

.TIDES/COASTAL FLOODING...
Rip current risk forecast is moderate both for today and Friday
for the ocean beaches of NYC and Long Island due to onshore flow
of near 5-10 kts as well as 3 to 4 ft of 7-8 sec period swell as
well as some smaller onshore long period swell of 1 ft and 
11-12 sec period.

&&

.OKX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CT...None.
NY...None.
NJ...None.
MARINE...None.

&&

$$

SYNOPSIS...JM/99
NEAR TERM...JM
SHORT TERM...JM
LONG TERM...99
AVIATION...DS
MARINE...JM/99
HYDROLOGY...JM/99
TIDES/COASTAL FLOODING...
