790 
FXUS61 KOKX 121850
AFDOKX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service New York NY
250 PM EDT Thu Jun 12 2025

.SYNOPSIS...
A cold front slowly pushes through tonight and stalls just south of 
the area on Friday. A weak low pushes along the boundary late 
Friday night and pushes through early on Saturday. High pressure
off the New England coast tries to build towards the area 
Sunday into Monday as waves of low pressure move along the 
stalled boundary to our south. The high weakens on Tuesday 
allowing the front to begin returning northward through next 
Thursday.

&&

.NEAR TERM /THROUGH FRIDAY/...
A cold front approaches and pushes through during the overnight. 
Questions remain as to the degree of convective initiation just 
ahead and along the boundary, which some convective allowing models 
(CAMs)show taking place. There are some subtle timing differences 
along with disagreement in actual occurrence. The region will be 
just south or on the southern periphery of a jet axis which swings 
through far Northern New England into Southern Canada. Therefore 
there should be sufficient shear to support convective storm 
organization if convection actually gets going. However, there 
remains a strong conditionality component to any convection as 
forecast soundings continue to indicate some capping at multiple 
levels. Also with timing differences and many CAMs hinting at a 
later time for shower or potential thunderstorm initiation, CAPE 
should wane some as we get away from the daytime hours and later in 
the evening and night. Now, if some convection can get going any 
storms would likely contain strong gusty winds with solid DCAPE
values, along with the potential for hail. The greater chance 
appears to be for the western third of the region where 
instability is progged to be higher and peaks at 1000-1500 J/kg 
during the early to mid evening. With some mid-level warm air 
being indicated by forecast soundings updrafts may struggle to 
accelerate with some storms perhaps staying sub severe. Trends 
in the CAMs will continue to be monitored as SPC has a Marginal 
risk of sever weather for a portion of the region from basically
the NYC metro on west. Some of the experimental CAM guidance 
has suggested a better convective, or at least an occasional 
shower chance late in the overnight and into Friday morning. 
Will highlight a low end chance PoP for the marginal risk area 
further west during the early to mid evening, with another 
slight chance PoP time period for a more widespread portion of 
the region into Friday morning. Temperatures overnight will 
average close to or just above the seasonal norms with mainly 
60s for lows.

Questions remain abound for the day Friday. The cold front which is 
progged to move through Thursday night is not progged to get very 
far to the south and is expected to stall nearby, perhaps just to 
the immediate south. At the same time high pressure attempts to 
ridge down, at least temporary from the northwest before the next 
impulse attempts to approach from the west towards late in the day 
and evening. Also the upper level jet gets further downstream to the 
northeast as the region should get in-between any mid and upper 
level support / forcing mechanisms. Low end chance to slight chance 
PoPs appear prudent for the day Friday, although the consensus of 
NWP guidance keeps the region dry much of the day. More of an 
onshore flow is expected into Friday afternoon with some uncertainty 
as to how much the onshore flow can penetrate into western most 
areas. With some cloud cover and more of an onshore flow 
temperatures should be cooler with mainly upper half of the 70s to 
lower 80s for daytime highs.

&&

.SHORT TERM /FRIDAY NIGHT THROUGH SATURDAY/...
During Friday night with the frontal boundary stalled nearby and 
perhaps just south of the area expect disturbances to more or less 
ride along the boundary. Occasional showers looks to take place 
during Friday night. The column is forecast to saturate further into 
later in the overnight and into early Saturday morning. Instability 
appears to be limited Friday night into Saturday, thus will carry 
high end chance to low end likely PoPs for weather across the region 
late Friday night into Saturday morning. During the day Saturday it 
doesn't appear to be a complete washout, as after the disturbance 
from the morning gets through most NWP guidance suggests a relative 
break or pause in any shower activity. Thus, have included low end 
chance PoPs Saturday afternoon. Suffice it to say that the start of 
the weekend will feature more in the way of clouds, with a period or 
two of unsettled weather with the potential for showers. With the 
onshore flow progged to continue on Saturday with a E-ENE wind in 
the boundary layer expect temperatures to average below normal. Max 
temperatures will likely only reach the upper 60s to perhaps some 
lower and middle lower 70s. 

&&

.LONG TERM /SATURDAY NIGHT THROUGH THURSDAY/...
No significant changes were made to the long term Saturday night 
through next Thursday.

Key Points:

*While there is a chance for showers through the period, it will
not be a complete washout.

*Difficult to time waves of low pressure and moisture interactions 
with the stalled boundary to our south will  ultimately determine 
when/if showers occur across parts of the  area Saturday night 
through early next week. 

*The stalled boundary starts retreated northward later Tuesday 
through Thursday continuing the chance for showers, possibly a 
thunderstorm. 

*Temperatures will average below normal Sunday and Monday then 
return to more seasonably warm levels Tuesday with potential of 
warmer than normal conditions mid to late week. 

The region will lie on the southern periphery of the westerlies for 
much of the long term period with ridging holding across the 
southern US. A frontal boundary will remain stalled across the 
Middle Atlantic. The main forecast challenge Saturday night through 
Monday will be from difficult to time waves of low pressure on the 
stalled front as well as an subtle shortwaves in the middle level 
flow. Surface ridging will also try to take hold over the area, 
which may limit how much shower activity can develop. Model trends 
have been leaning in this direction, especially for Sunday into 
Monday with increasing chances for mostly dry conditions. The upper 
ridging may start building along the eastern seaboard Tuesday and 
Wednesday allowing the boundary to lift back to the north as a warm 
front. A more organized shortwave may then start approaching towards 
next Thursday which may also bring in another cold front, but this 
remains uncertain given it is a week out.

Rainfall amounts and any impacts appear limited at this time with 
any greater chance of convection potentially occurring mid week as 
conditions warm up and instability starts increasing. There will 
likely be adjustments to PoPs and timing of any potential convection 
once the mesoscale environment becomes better resolved.

&&

.AVIATION /19Z THURSDAY THROUGH TUESDAY/...
A weak cold front slowly passes through early this evening.

Mainly VFR, however there's a chance of MVFR/IFR with TSTMs 
late day/early evening. Have opted to address this with PROB30. 
Still can't rule out showers and iso TSTM later tonight into the
Friday morning push, however confidence is not high enough to 
include in TAFs at this time. 

W to SW winds 10-15kt with gusts 16-20kt. Winds then shift NW-N
this evening.

 NY Metro (KEWR/KLGA/KJFK/KTEB) TAF Uncertainty...

Showers/tstms may be only isolated at most or not occur at all.

Chance that KJFK does not shift to around 210 true late this
afternoon. Additionally, if convection does not occur, winds
could shift back to westerly near 23-00z.

Winds may vary from around 230 through 290 true all afternoon
for KEWR/KTEB/KLGA.

Shift to NNW-N for all terminals may be off by 1-2 hours.

.OUTLOOK FOR 18Z FRIDAY THROUGH TUESDAY... 

Friday aftn/evening: VFR.

Friday overnight-Saturday: MVFR/IFR with chance of showers.

Sunday: MVFR with showers possible.

Monday: Chance of showers and MVFR/IFR.

Tuesday: Mainly VFR.

Detailed information, including hourly TAF wind component forecasts, 
can be found at: https:/www.weather.gov/zny/n90

&&

.MARINE...
Sub advisory conditions are anticipated for all waters through the 
first half of the weekend. Ocean seas generally hold at 2 to 3 ft 
with a relaxed pressure gradient and a light onshore flow. Winds 
and seas are expected to remain below SCA levels from Saturday 
night through next Tuesday with a weak pressure gradient in place.

&&

.HYDROLOGY...
There are no hydrologic concerns through the short and near term. 
There is the low chance of a few isolated thunderstorms, but any 
localized hydrologic impact should be minimal. Also, there are 
no hydrologic impacts expected throughout the long term period.

&&

.TIDES/COASTAL FLOODING...
A moderate rip current risk continues through this evening. The risk 
becomes low on Friday with a light easterly flow and limited swell. 
There is a moderate rip current risk on Saturday with increasing 
easterly flow and building seas 3 to 4 ft.

&&

.OKX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CT...None.
NY...Air Quality Alert until midnight EDT tonight for NYZ067>075-
     078>081-176>179.
NJ...Air Quality Alert until 11 PM EDT this evening for NJZ004-006-
     103>108.
MARINE...None.

&&

$$

SYNOPSIS...JE/DS
NEAR TERM...JE
SHORT TERM...JE
LONG TERM...DS
AVIATION...JC
MARINE...JE/DS
HYDROLOGY...JE/DS
TIDES/COASTAL FLOODING...
