970 
FXUS61 KOKX 060532
AFDOKX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service New York NY
132 AM EDT Fri Jun 6 2025

.SYNOPSIS...
A cold front slowly approaches the area Friday before passing 
through on Saturday. Weak high pressure then briefly follows 
for Sunday followed by a series of weak lows passing to the 
south and east Sunday night into Monday. A slow moving frontal 
system will then work across the area Tuesday into Wednesday.

&&

.NEAR TERM /UNTIL 6 AM THIS MORNING/...
An isolated shower and/or thunderstorm is still possible north 
and west of NYC the next few hours, but anything that does 
develop will be weak and short-lived. Otherwise, it will be 
warn night with lows in the middle to upper 60s for most and in 
the low 70s for the NYC metro. This is close to 10 degrees above
normal.

&&

.SHORT TERM /6 AM THIS MORNING THROUGH 6 PM SATURDAY/...
The large-scale ridging over the area shifts offshore tomorrow with 
subtle lowering heights aloft as mid-level troughing pushes into the 
Great Lakes region. Downstream of the surface cold front, several 
pre-frontal troughs are expected to be the focus for convection for 
the next couple of days. Generally, mostly to partly sunny skies 
Friday is expected to allow ample surface heating and the 
development of instability on the order of 1000-2000 J/kg or higher 
for interior portions of the area. Despite the ample instability, 
there will be fairly little shear (20kt or less) with fairly slow 
mid-level flow.

Additionally, a strong seabreeze is expected to develop under the 
light synoptic flow and should be able to move deep into the 
northern portions of the CWA. While this may partially be a trigger 
for storms to develop, south of the seabreeze, the cooler air off of 
the ocean will stabilize the lower atmosphere, preventing convection 
from being able to sustain itself. As such, a good portion of the 
CAMs have the strongest and most numerous convection north of the 
CWA, though the LHV and CT remain in the marginal risk for severe 
storms, which remains possible but mainly for any storms prior 
to the seabreeze passage. Highs tomorrow will be in the 80s once
again, though any spots reaching 90 should be limited if any. 

Residual convection may move into northern and western portions of 
the CWA during the evening but once surface heating shuts off, 
convection should be on a rapidly weakening trend. 

The cold front approaches the area Friday night from the west that 
will result in a cloudier sky for Saturday. Models differ a bit as 
to how much residual convection will be around by Saturday morning, 
but either way, cloud cover should limit the amount of surface 
heating taking place on Saturday. This should limit any stronger to 
severe convection to more of showers with embedded convection. 

Given the general slower storm motion with possible repeated rounds 
of convection, WPC has a marginal risk of excessive rainfall. This 
may result in local hydrologic concerns, though widespread issues 
are not expected.

&&

.LONG TERM /SATURDAY NIGHT THROUGH THURSDAY/...
Stayed close to the  NBM with global models in good overall 
agreement with the large scale mass fields. However, there are 
some timing and placement issues as can be expected at this 
juncture in time. At the start of the period, shortwave ridging 
will pass through the area on Sunday with weak surface high 
pressure. There is some uncertainty with the location of a 
weak surface low passing to the south Sunday night into Monday 
morning. The 12Z GFS is far enough to the south to keep the area
dry, while the ECMWF is far enough north to bring a high 
probability of rainfall into the region. For the time, NBM has 
a 20-30 percent chance of showers and/or rain during this time,
but no higher than a 10 percent chance of rainfall amounts greater
than 0.50". For the rest of Monday through the first half Tuesday
rain chances will be low, but then increase as a frontal system
works into the area. The best chance at this time looks to be 
Tuesday afternoon/evening. Instability is marginal at this time 
with strengthening deep-layer shear as an upper trough approaches
from the Great Lakes. The latter of which will drive a cold 
front through the area toward daybreak Wednesday with drier air
to follow for midweek. 

Much of the period will feature weak onshore flow, intervals of 
clouds, and rain chances. This will keep daytime highs mainly 
in the 70s Sunday into Tuesday with lows warming into the lower 
60s during this time. Humidity will be on the rise as well. 
Temperatures will warm Wednesday into Thursday with a westerly 
surface wind component and building heights aloft.

&&

.AVIATION /06Z FRIDAY THROUGH TUESDAY/...
High pressure remains offshore, meanwhile, as a cold front 
slowly approaches into Friday.

Mainly VFR through the TAF period. There is a chance for MVFR/IFR at 
KGON and potentially KISP late tonight/early Friday morning. There 
is also a chance for showers and thunderstorms and MVFR Friday 
afternoon and evening, mainly from the NYC metro on NW.
Additional MVFR cigs/vsbys possible once again Friday night into
Saturday morning. 

SW winds under 10 kt overnight with most terminals becoming light 
and/or variable. Winds Friday morning may also be a bit variable, 
but should settle to the SW-S by midday and remain there through the 
afternoon. Speeds will be around 10 kt for most sites, but could be 
a few kt higher at times near the coast. 

 ...NY Metro (KEWR/KLGA/KJFK/KTEB) TAF Uncertainty...

Some wind direction variability is expected Friday morning before 
15z. 

Amendments possible for timing of shower/thunderstorm potential 
Friday evening.

.OUTLOOK FOR 06Z SATURDAY THROUGH TUESDAY... 

Friday night: Pockets of MVFR/IFR possible. Chance of a shower or 
thunderstorm, mainly NW of the NYC metro. 

Saturday: MVFR/IFR and showers possible. Slight chance of a 
thunderstorm.

Sunday: VFR daytime. Chance of MVFR and showers at night.

Monday: VFR. Slight chance of a shower. 

Tuesday: MVFR or lower possible. Showers likely with a chance of 
thunderstorms in the afternoon and evening.

Detailed information, including hourly TAF wind component forecasts, 
can be found at: https:/www.weather.gov/zny/n90

&&

.MARINE...
Winds and waves are expected to remain generally below SCA levels on 
all waters through at least late Friday night. Waves approach 5 feet 
on the ocean early Saturday morning.

Thereafter, expect sub-advisory conditions through the middle 
of next week. Waves of low pressure passing to the south and 
a southerly swell will keep seas on the ocean 3 to 4 ft. Chances
increase for marginal SCA conditions for seas around 5 ft Tuesday
night into Wednesday.

&&

.HYDROLOGY...
No widespread hydrologic impacts are expected through Saturday,
although thunderstorms could produce locally heavy rain Friday 
and possibly Saturday.

Showers and thunderstorms Tuesday into Tuesday night may produce at 
least minor nuisance flooding. Low confidence at this time regarding 
potential impacts this far ahead in time.

&&

.TIDES/COASTAL FLOODING...
The is low rip current risk for Friday, but a building southerly
swell of 3-4 ft 8s, will result in a moderate risk for Saturday
with 3-4 ft waves in the surf zone.

&&

.OKX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CT...None.
NY...None.
NJ...None.
MARINE...None.

&&

$$

SYNOPSIS...DW/MW
NEAR TERM...DW/MW
SHORT TERM...MW
LONG TERM...DW
AVIATION...BC
MARINE...DW/MW
HYDROLOGY...DW/MW
TIDES/COASTAL FLOODING...
