751 
FXUS61 KOKX 061121
AFDOKX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service New York NY
621 AM EST Thu Feb 6 2025

.SYNOPSIS...
Low pressure impacts the area today before moving to the northeast 
tonight. High pressure builds back into the area for Friday and into 
the first half of the weekend. Another area of low pressure 
impacts the area Saturday night into Sunday. High pressure 
returns Sunday into Monday night. A series of low pressures may 
pass south of Long Island Tuesday and Wednesday.

&&

.NEAR TERM /THROUGH TONIGHT/...
Low pressure will impact the area today with a variety of
precipitation types expected across the CWA throughout the day.

Waves of moisture and precipitation are moving through the CWA.
Precipitation type seems to be driven primarily on intensity.
Higher intensity precipitation is allowing for some low level
dynamic cooling and eroding of the low-level warm layer
resulting in a primarily snow or snow/sleet mix. As the
intensity lightens, a freezing rain/freezing drizzle and light 
sleet has been observed. Over the next several hours, warm air
aloft should win out, eventually causing all precipitation to
transition to a plain rain, first at the coast, then more
inland by mid to late morning.

Precipitation is expected to come to an end this afternoon. 
Some patchy fog development is also possible late this afternoon
and into this evening as a moist surface and generally light 
winds will support fog development.

Total snow accumulations of generally around an inch for Long
Island and 1-2 inches for the rest of the CWA possible. A glaze
of ice is possible along the coast as well with up to a tenth 
of ice possible for northern areas. As such, Winter Weather 
Advisories are in effect for this icing potential to impact the 
morning commute.

Winds will increase from the W and NW tonight, allowing for any
fog to mix out as drier air moves in. Lows tonight will be in
the low to middle 30s.

&&

.SHORT TERM /FRIDAY THROUGH SATURDAY/...
High pressure builds in behind the departing low on Friday. This
will bring in a drier airmass, though a tightening pressure
gradient will allow for windy conditions on Friday with gusts
upwards of 30-35 mph, locally to 40 mph possible. High
temperatures on Friday will be in the middle to upper 30s.

High pressure continues to build into the area with dry
conditions and diminishing winds Friday night. Low temperatures
will be in the teens for the inland areas with the low to middle
20s expected for the coast. The cold airmass remains in place on
Saturday as high pressure begins to slide overhead. Highs will 
be in the low to middle 30s for much of the area on Saturday.

&&

.LONG TERM /SATURDAY NIGHT THROUGH WEDNESDAY/...
Confidence is increasing in active period with several chances for 
wintry weather.

*Key Points*

*Recent model trends indicate increasing probabilities for an 
accumulating/advisory level snowfall and low potential for warning 
level snowfall across the interior Saturday night.

*The accumulating snow may transition to a wintry mix late Saturday 
night, especially closer to the coast.

*A series of low pressures may pass off the Middle Atlantic Tuesday 
into Wednesday with another chance for snow.

Fast, zonal flow aloft will continue into early next week. The 
modeling has been in excellent agreement with a fast moving middle 
level shortwave and strong upper jet moving towards the region 
Saturday night. The differences in the guidance continue be with the 
exact track of the parent low and its transfer to the coast by early 
Sunday morning. The system is fast moving and will pull away from 
the area Sunday morning and early Sunday afternoon.

There have a been a few notable dprog/dt trends over the last 
several cycles of the models that may be beginning to shed a little 
clearer picture of the evolution of the event. The parent low will 
likely be moving across the Ohio Valley in the evening with its 
associated warm front approaching from the southwest. The trend has 
been for the parent low to track into western PA rather than up into 
western NY. The low then transfers to a secondary low along and just 
off the Middle Atlantic coast. As a result, the model consensus is 
starting to lean towards a colder solution especially at the 
beginning of the event as departing high pressure leaves behind a 
cold and dry air mass Saturday evening. There may still be some 
mixing/ptype changes closer to the coast as warmer air aloft tries 
to get into the area late at night. Some warmer surface air may also 
try to edge north across portions of the NYC metro and Long Island, 
but the magnitude of this is a bit uncertain. If the secondary low 
develops quicker, it may help keep the flow more N or NE and hold 
back some of the warmer air. These are some of the mesoscale details 
that still need to be worked out in the next 24 to 48 hours.

The current anticipated evolution will be a period of accumulating 
snow beginning Saturday night 7pm to 10pm, from west to east. The 
system will likely have more moisture and more organized dynamics to 
work with compared to the event today (early Thursday morning). 
Model soundings indicate strong lift in the Dendritic growth zone 
along with thermal profiles favorable for all snow area wide the 
first half of the night. Moderate snow is possible and there could 
be some bands of heavier snow with some of the modeled 850-700mb 
frontogenesis. Sometime around or just after midnight some warmer 
air aloft may try to bring a mix of of snow and sleet along the 
coast and potentially into the NYC metro. Most of the global models 
show this, but the timing and magnitude differ. However, given how 
quickly the modeled QPF increases before the potential transition, 
advisory level snowfall is possible even down to the coast. 
Locations further inland should stay snow well into the early 
morning hours with any mixing potentially coming from the loss of 
snow growth and weaker lift. Some colder air could wrap back into 
the system as the storm pulls away early Sunday morning, but lift is 
not as impressive. Any lingering precip should end shortly after day 
break Sunday based on the latest trends. 

NBM probabilities for a 3 inches or more (advisory level) of snow 
between 00z and 12z Sunday have been steadily increasing over the 
last three cycles. They were around 50 percent for Southern CT and 
the Lower Hudson Valley on the 13z Feb 5th cycle and are now around 
80 percent on the 01z Feb 6th cycle. These probabilities have also 
increased down to the coast and went from around 20 percent to 
around 50 percent on the 01z cycle. NBM probabilities have also 
increased for 6 inches (warning level) going from about 15 percent 
to 50-60 percent inland. The probability for a 6 inch event at the 
coast notably jumped from near 0 to about 15-20 percent. Based on 
collaboration with neighboring offices and WPC, our latest official 
snowfall forecast ranges from 2-4 inches Long Island and NYC metro 
up to 4-6 inches with isolated amounts up to 7 in higher elevations 
for interior NE NJ, Lower Hudson Valley and Southern Connecticut. 
Adjustments to these totals are expected given that this is still 3 
days out. A further north track would lead to lower snowfall totals 
whereas a further south track could lead to higher totals down to 
the coast. A brief period of freezing rain is possible, but have 
left out of the forecast for now given some lingering uncertainties 
with the depth of the surface cold as well as the potential warm 
nose. Any freezing rain if it were to happen would be well after 
midnight. Adjust

Dry conditions return on Sunday into Monday with high pressure 
building over the region. The baroclinic/thermal gradient looks to 
reside a bit further south than this week with several areas of 
shortwave energy riding along this gradient. Guidance continues to 
signal a series of low pressures passing to our south Tuesday and 
potentially into Wednesday. Lots of questions remain with whether or 
not it will be one main wave or broken up into different periods. 
However, the chance is there for another wintry event mid next week. 
The current model consensus was followed which gives a snow 
solution. There is still room for this to trend a bit more 
suppressed, which could lower precip amounts. For this reason, have 
capped PoPs off at 50 percent for now.

&&

.AVIATION /11Z THURSDAY THROUGH MONDAY/...
Low pressure approaches approaches early this morning and impacts 
the terminals into the evening.

Lowering conditions early this morning as -SN develops  Expect MVFR 
cigs with -SN by 10-11z. IFR follows shortly thereafter. Snow 
transitions to sleet and/or freezing rain around 13-15z along the 
coast and across the NYC metro. Have continued with PROB30s for FZRA 
at KJFK and KLGA, with the higher probability of FZRA for the 
terminals NW of the NYC metro. A transition to plain rain takes 
place for the NYC terminals from 15-16Z, but should stay FZRA at 
KSWF for some time afterwards. Precip to end as DZ towards 18-20Z 
with LIFR into the evening. IFR visibilities may continue into the 
evening. 

Winds pick up to around 5-10 kt from the E-SE early this morning. 
For the afternoon as the low begins to get further east the winds 
briefly go ENE at most terminals, then shift to WSW late in the day 
into the evening.

 ...NY Metro (KEWR/KLGA/KJFK/KTEB) TAF Uncertainty... 

Amendments are likely this morning for flight categories as well as 
precipitation type changes.

Low chance for LIFR visibilities this evening.

.OUTLOOK FOR 06Z FRIDAY THROUGH MONDAY... 

Late Tonight: VFR returns. 

Friday: VFR. WNW winds G25-30kt. 

Saturday: VFR during the day. Snow at night with IFR, changing to a 
wintry mix late at night, especially near the coast.

Sunday: Light snow possible early inland with wintry mix near the 
coast with IFR, then VFR.

Monday: VFR.

Detailed information, including hourly TAF wind component forecasts, 
can be found at: https:/www.weather.gov/zny/n90

&&

.MARINE...
Sub-SCA conditions are expected this morning with a building sea
allowing for SCA conditions on the ocean by this afternoon and
evening. Increasing W and NW winds tonight and especially on
Friday behind a departing low will allow the expansion of SCAs 
to the rest of the waters. Gusts will generally be 25-30kt,
though a gale force gust can't be entirely ruled out on Friday
for the waters. Sub-SCA condition are then expected Friday night
and through at least Saturday. 

SCA conditions are possible on the ocean Saturday night into Sunday 
as low pressure impacts the waters. High pressure then returns with 
a weak pressure gradient and conditions below SCA levels Sunday 
night into Monday night.

&&

.HYDROLOGY...
There are no hydrologic concerns through the forecast period.

&&

.OKX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CT...Winter Weather Advisory until 1 PM EST this afternoon for 
     CTZ005>012.
NY...Winter Weather Advisory until 1 PM EST this afternoon for 
     NYZ067>071.
     Winter Weather Advisory until 11 AM EST this morning for 
     NYZ072>075-078-080-176>179.
NJ...Winter Weather Advisory until 1 PM EST this afternoon for 
     NJZ002-004-103>105-107.
     Winter Weather Advisory until 11 AM EST this morning for 
     NJZ006-106-108.
MARINE...Small Craft Advisory from 6 AM to 6 PM EST Friday for ANZ331-
     332-335-338-340-345.
     Small Craft Advisory from 1 PM this afternoon to 6 PM EST 
     Friday for ANZ350.
     Small Craft Advisory from 6 PM this evening to 6 PM EST Friday 
     for ANZ353-355.

&&

$$

SYNOPSIS...DS/MW
NEAR TERM...MW
SHORT TERM...MW
LONG TERM...DS
AVIATION...DS
MARINE...DS/MW
HYDROLOGY...DS/MW
