182 
FXUS61 KOKX 291829
AFDOKX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service New York NY
229 PM EDT Sun Jun 29 2025

.SYNOPSIS...
High pressure will be in control today and weaken on Monday. A warm 
front then approaches Monday night and lifts through the region 
during Tuesday. This will be followed by a cold front Tuesday
night. Weak high pressure will be in control mid week. A cold front 
approaches and moves through late Thursday, followed by high pressure
returning Friday into Saturday.

&&

.NEAR TERM /THROUGH TONIGHT/...
High pressure builds in behind a departing cold front today, but the 
front stalls close to the area before resuming a southward track
this evening. It should be a partly to mostly sunny day anyway,
probably filtered by some cirrus. Mostly clear and dry 
conditions then continue tonight. 

850mb temps progged at 17-18C along with a westerly flow should 
allow for low 90s in parts of NYC and the urban corridor of NE NJ 
and 85-90 for most other locations. Heat index values will however 
be fairly close to ambient temperatures as dewpoints through the top 
of the boundary layer are low enough for surface dewpoints to mix 
out fairly easily during the afternoon. Low temperatures tonight 3-5 
degrees above normal.

&&

.SHORT TERM /MONDAY THROUGH TUESDAY NIGHT/...
We'll still be largely under the influence of high pressure during 
Monday, but a shower or thunderstorm may sneak into NE NJ or the 
city very late in the day. NBM looked good for the most part 
regarding high temperatures for Monday, but a few minor local 
adjustments were made. Models show dewpoints through the boundary 
layer still low enough for surface dewpoints to mix out up until 
winds shift onshore and boundary layer dewpoints rise in the 
afternoon. Advisory thresholds for heat are however not expected to 
be reached.

A warm front approaches Monday night and probably remains to our 
south through the night. Isentropic and mid-level shortwave lift 
pass through and interact with deepening moisture, increasing the 
chances of showers as the night progresses. There's enough CAPE 
progged to keep in the mention of a thunderstorm.

The warm front then lifts through the forecast area during Tuesday 
with the help of a low level jet, maintaining chances of a shower or 
thunderstorm. A prefrontal trough then quickly follows it from the 
west, followed by a cold front Tuesday night. Showers with some 
thunderstorms are anticipated with the higher chances being during 
the afternoon. Shear profiles are sufficient for strong to severe 
thunderstorms, and there should be enough CAPE, but just how much 
CAPE is a greater uncertainty as there could be plenty of cloud 
cover for much of the day. So far it appears that the main threat as 
usual will be winds, but there's plenty of CAPE progged in the -10C 
to -30C layer with some veering from the low to mid levels, so 
cannot rule a threat of large hail. SPC has the entire area within a 
marginal risk (5% chance) for severe weather.

Regarding the flooding potential on Tuesday, PWATS are modeled at 
around 2.25 inches, which is 2-3 standard deviations above normal. 
This would however be mitigated by the forward motion of cells with 
the steering flow projected at 30-40kt. There are still indications 
however that 850-500mb winds would be parallel to the horizontal 
orientation of the greatest low-mid level moisture convergence, 
increasing the chances of back-building and some training. Therefore 
cannot rule out the threat of flash flooding. WPC currently has most 
of the forecast area within a marginal threat (5% chance) of 
excessive rainfall. Shower and thunderstorm chances then diminish 
Tuesday night, probably exiting east by morning, as the cold front 
moves through.

Went with NBM for high temperatures and dewpoints on Tuesday, but 
temps could be a little too high if it remains mostly cloudy for 
much of the day. Dewpoints will probably be in the lower to middle 
70s with a SW flow and moisture pooling near the surface trough. 
Heat indices could reach 1-day advisory thresholds for some spots 
if NBM temps and dewpoints are realized.

&&

.LONG TERM /WEDNESDAY THROUGH SATURDAY/...
Key messages:

* Seasonably warm and humid Wednesday and Thursday

* Less humid for the 4th of July

Look for the typical summer air mass to be in place mid week. A cold 
front is expected to approach Thursday and swing through Thursday 
night. The front is expected to bring the chance of showers and 
possibly some thunderstorms to the region. There remains some 
uncertainty to the orientation and positioning of upper level energy 
north of the region. This will ultimately determine how widespread 
any shower and thunderstorm activity gets late Thursday.

Regardless of how unsettled the weather gets late Thursday, it 
appears that this cold front will serve to lower humidity levels late 
in the week for the 4th of July holiday. Into next weekend the 
global NWP guidance is suggestive of mid and upper level height 
rises and is suggestive of slightly warmer temperatures for the end 
of the period. Overall utilized the NBM guidance with only slight 
adjustments overall with PoP late Thursday and towards the tail end 
of the period into next weekend.

&&

.AVIATION /18Z SUNDAY THROUGH FRIDAY/...
A weak front and/or surface trough will remain across the 
coastal terminals this afternoon before pushing south this 
evening. High pressure will then build in from the NW tonight 
into Monday.

VFR prevails. 

The CT terminals, KJFK, and KISP will do battle this afternoon 
as the seabreeze attempts to work in against a W-WNW flow.
Expect any seabreeze to have a west component this afternoon, 
but KJFK may for a time go more southerly. Elsewhere, winds will
be W-WNW around 10 kt with a few gusts possible at 15-18kt.

The winds will then quickly lighten this evening and veer around
to the N/NE at less than 5 kt. In some cases, winds will just 
go light and variable. Winds will then become SSE at 10 kt or 
less on Monday.

     NY Metro (KEWR/KLGA/KJFK/KTEB) TAF Uncertainty...

Winds at KJFK may fluctuate from WSW-S this afternoon. 

There is low-medium to chance for the seabreeze to make to KLGA
toward 23Z. 

.OUTLOOK FOR 18Z MONDAY THROUGH FRIDAY... 

Monday Afternoon: VFR during the day. A chance of showers and 
thunderstorms at night. MVFR or lower possible at night as a 
warm front approaches from the south.

Tuesday: Showers with a chance of thunderstorms with MVFR or lower 
possible, especially afternoon and evening. SW wind gusts 15-20 kt 
day into early eve.

Wednesday: VFR.

Thursday: Mainly VFR, but MVFR possible afternoon into early eve 
with showers and thunderstorms possible.

Friday: VFR.

Detailed information, including hourly TAF wind component forecasts, 
can be found at: https:/www.weather.gov/zny/n90

&&

.MARINE...
Sub-SCA conditions are expected through early Tuesday. Winds 
and seas then increase ahead of a cold front, which is expected 
to pass through during Tuesday night. SCA conditions are 
probable on the ocean Tuesday afternoon and night.

Sub advisory conditions return Wednesday into Wednesday night with 
mainly 3 to 4 ft ocean seas. Despite a cold front moving through 
late Thursday sub advisory conditions are expected to remain in 
place with the winds switching to the NW behind the front Thursday 
night into Friday morning.

&&

.HYDROLOGY...
No hydrologic impacts are anticipated through Monday. A half 
inch to inch of rain is currently forecast for Tuesday into 
Tuesday night. Locally higher amounts are possible, and there is
at least a low chance for flash flooding to occur. Minor poor 
drainage flooding would be more likely. There are no significant
hydrologic concerns at this time from Wednesday through late 
week.

&&

.TIDES/COASTAL FLOODING...
There is a moderate risk of rip current development across the
ocean beaches today and Monday.

&&

.OKX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CT...None.
NY...None.
NJ...None.
MARINE...None.

&&

$$

SYNOPSIS...JC/JE
NEAR TERM...JC
SHORT TERM...JC
LONG TERM...JE
AVIATION...DW
MARINE...JC/JE
HYDROLOGY...JC/JE
TIDES/COASTAL FLOODING...
