220 
FXUS61 KOKX 140600
AFDOKX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service New York NY
200 AM EDT Fri Mar 14 2025

.SYNOPSIS...
A high pressure ridge along the coast will shift inland tonight
as weak low pressure passes by well to the southeast. The high 
will return to the coast on Friday, then weaken Friday night 
into Saturday. A warm front will lift through late Saturday, 
followed by a complex frontal system for Sunday into the first 
half of Monday. High pressure will return later Monday into 
Tuesday, before moving offshore on Wednesday. Another frontal 
system will approach on Thursday.

&&

.NEAR TERM /UNTIL 6 AM THIS MORNING/...
With the cloud cover across the coastal areas, and lowering,
temperatures will mot drop off as much as forecast, and raised 
overnight lows a few degrees. Increased cloud cover across Long
Island and into the NYC metro region as offshore low clouds 
have begun to move inland, and will spread north and west into 
tonight. Otherwise, only minor updates were done for current 
conditions.

A high pressure ridge along the Connecticut coast and into
northeastern New Jersey will remain nearly stationary overnight.
Meanwhile, a weak low passes well to the southeast, with winds 
backed to the NE.

&&

.SHORT TERM /6 AM THIS MORNING THROUGH 6 PM SATURDAY/...
As the weak offshore low moves east the sfc high should
reposition itself along the coast on Fri, with any AM clouds
along the coast scattering by afternoon. With a mostly sunny
afternoon and heights rising aloft expect a milder day, with
high temps 50-55 along the coast and 55-60 inland. 

As the high weakens late Fri into Fri night a light return SE-S
flow should develop, with an increase in low clouds especially
closer to the coast. Low temps will range from the lower 40s
invof NYC to the 30s elsewhere.

&&

.LONG TERM /SATURDAY NIGHT THROUGH THURSDAY/...
Key Points:

* Overall an above normal temperature regime, especially during
  the daytime and further west across the region.

* A complex frontal systems impacts the region Sunday PM into
  Monday AM.

A central US trough lifts northeast this weekend and will impact
the region Sun night / early Monday. This will be followed by 
Central US ridging by Monday, which will progress east and 
amplify through mid week. Another Pacific based trough then 
approaches with a complex frontal system towards Thu / Thu night
with global NWP maintaining timing differences among the 
various camps.

Occluded low pressure will drive up into the Midwest and Western 
Great Lakes to begin the period. An extensive warm front will 
emanate from the storm system all the way to the Eastern 
Seaboard. A broad southerly based synoptic flow regime sets up 
along the east coast and our area. Temperatures will overall 
average above normal, however half of the area will have a 
southerly wind coming off the colder ocean, thus this will 
modify temperatures quite a bit. Much of the higher res guidance
as is WPC does analyze a warm front embedded in the southerly 
flow late in the day Saturday. This may be enough of a focusing 
mechanism and convergence zone to initiate some shower activity 
across the region on Saturday along with some diffuse mid level 
energy. Have gone with low end chance PoPs with shower activity 
mainly for Saturday afternoon and evening. Later Saturday night 
into Sunday morning should be shower free for the most part as 
the area gets firmly in the warm sector. The synoptic flow will 
then increase ahead of an approaching cold front on Sunday. The 
winds increase through the day as the pressure gradient tightens
ahead of the cold frontal boundary. NBM and LREF probabilistic 
guidance suggests a 40 to 50 percent chance of wind gusts at or 
slightly greater than 40 mph for the NYC metro and coastal 
sections. A surge of higher PWATs and theta-e moves up from the 
Piedmont and the Lower Mid Atlantic. Therefore have introduced a
swath of slight chance of thunder for late Sunday / first half 
of Sunday for W / SW portions of the area. Any convection would 
likely be elevated with stable air getting into a good portion 
of the area on a southerly sfc flow. There is a fairly good 
chance of a period of moderate to perhaps even heavy rain for 
Sunday evening into a portion of the overnight into Monday 
morning from west to east ahead of the boundary. Probabilistic 
precip guidance from the NBM and LREF is suggestive of a 50 to 
70 percent chance of an inch of rain, with a reasonable worst 
case (10 to 20% chance) of up to two inches. 

The frontal system is expected to get off the coast sometime
during the day Monday with some subtle timing difference among
global NWP. It is likely by afternoon some clearing gets into 
portions of the area. With a W flow have gone a bit above NBM 
temp guidance on Monday, and also on Tuesday on a W to SW flow. 
There is a chance if the sfc wind direction has enough of a W 
component that temperatures could be underdone by quite a bit on
Tuesday with a pacific air mass source region. With an 
amplifying mid and upper level ridge temperatures should 
continue to average above normal into Wednesday, with guidance 
more suggestive of a southerly component to the winds which 
could keep eastern sections much cooler than western locations 
for both Wednesday and Thursday. Thus later next week day time 
temperature may be significantly above normal further west, and 
only slightly above normal further east across the area. The 
ridge does break down late Wednesday as the next frontal system 
approaches. This system would be bring the next chance or 
likelihood of rain towards Thu or Thu night depending on the 
speed and progression of the system.

&&

.AVIATION /06Z FRIDAY THROUGH TUESDAY/...
High pressure over the area slowly shifts east through tonight.

MVFR cigs and light NE winds through the morning push, then VFR
developing from approx 14-16z with winds shifting SE soon 
after at 5-10kt. MVFR cigs return tonight after 01-03z with 
light winds.

 ...NY Metro (KEWR/KLGA/KJFK/KTEB) TAF Uncertainty...

Timing for improvement to VFR this morning and return to MVFR
this evening may be off by 1-2 hours. Chance that IFR vsbys do 
not develop late tonight/Saturday morning.

.OUTLOOK FOR 06Z SATURDAY THROUGH TUESDAY...

Friday night: MVFR cigs with a chance of IFR vsbys towards the
morning push.

Saturday: MVFR cigs with a chance of IFR vsbys during the morning
push, then VFR in the afternoon. Chance of MVFR and rain 
showers during the afternoon.

Saturday night: MVFR with a chance of showers. S winds 
G20-30kt.

Sunday: MVFR with showers and LLWS mainly in the afternoon.
Chance of showers. S winds G25-35kt.

Sunday night: MVFR/IFR in rain/showers, a thunderstorm possible.
LLWS and S winds G30-40kt. Winds becoming SW and diminishing 
late. 

Monday: Sub VFR possible in AM, otherwise becoming VFR. Showers
ending west to east during the afternoon. 

Tuesday: VFR.

Detailed information, including hourly TAF wind component
forecasts, can be found at: https:/www.weather.gov/zny/n90

&&

.MARINE...
No changes to the winds and seas at this time.

SCA on the ocean extended into early Fri afternoon. Seas there
remain at 5-7 ft, highest in the NY Bight on E flow 15-20 kt, 
and will take longer to subside below 5 ft as flow backs NE 
tonight and slowly diminishes, then becomes light SE-S later 
Fri into Fri night. 

SCA conditions should again develop from south to north across 
the waters Saturday night as a southerly fetch strengthens. 
Conditions are likely to quickly ramp up to gales, first on the 
ocean and then also for the near shore non-ocean waters Sunday 
afternoon. With an inversion likely on the waters gusts to storm
force seem unlikely at this time. The cold front will likely 
begin to swing through late Sunday night / early Monday morning 
with the winds lowering and switching to the W, then NW into the
day Monday. Elevated small craft seas will continue on the 
ocean through at least Tuesday morning, with sub small craft 
seas likely returning either late Tuesday or Tuesday night.

&&

.HYDROLOGY...
Potential exists for a widespread 1 inch rainfall event from
late Sunday into the first half of Monday, with a 10-20 
percent chance (reasonable worst case scenario) of up to 2 
inches. At this time only localized minor nuisance/urban type 
flooding is anticipated.

&&

.OKX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CT...None.
NY...None.
NJ...None.
MARINE...Small Craft Advisory until 2 PM EDT this afternoon for ANZ350-
     353-355.

&&

$$

AVIATION...JC
