353 
FXUS61 KOKX 302120
AFDOKX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service New York NY
420 PM EST Thu Jan 30 2025

.SYNOPSIS...
A frontal system approaches tonight and impacts the area Friday
and Friday night. High pressure builds across the area Saturday
into Saturday night, then gives way to an approaching frontal 
system on Sunday. A warm front moves through the area Sunday 
night, followed by a cold frontal passage late Monday. High 
pressure briefly follows through Tuesday night, giving way to 
yet another frontal system Wednesday into Thursday.

&&

.NEAR TERM /UNTIL 6 AM FRIDAY MORNING/...
High pressure currently remains over the region, however the 
high slides eastward throughout the night. Meanwhile, a frontal 
boundary and low pressure system moving out of the middle part 
of the country slowly approaches from the west. The night starts
off under mostly clear skies, with clouds moving in after 
midnight and some light precipitation associated with a warm 
front is expected closer to daybreak. With generally light winds
and mostly clear skies for the first half of the night, expect 
good radiational cooling to start before the warm air starts to 
arrive. For most of the region, the precipitation will start off
as plain rain, however across the interior, the surface should 
remain cold enough for a brief period of precip to start off as 
freezing rain, as temperatures aloft will warm faster than the 
surface. Still looking at just trace to 0.02 on the freezing 
rain, so no changes to the headlines, except to add Western 
Passaic to the advisory. There is a chance the precipitation 
will hold off until after daybreak. This would possibly allow 
temperatures to warm even more before the precip arrives. Stuck 
with a MAV/MET blend for temperatures, which was in pretty good 
agreement.

&&

.SHORT TERM /6 AM FRIDAY MORNING THROUGH FRIDAY NIGHT/...
Winter weather advisories continue through 10am across portions of 
the interior as rain/freezing rain overspread there region Friday 
morning. Temperatures are expected to quickly rise above freezing by 
mid morning. With low pressure passing over the region Friday into 
Friday evening, expect a cloudy, cold rainy day. Highs will be in 
the 40s. 

The precipitation tapers off Friday night as the low departs. As the 
precip ends, there may be just enough cold air for some snowflakes 
to fall, especially across portions of the Lower Hudson Valley and 
southern CT. No accumulations are expected at this time. Lows Friday 
night fall into the upper 20s and 30s. With temperatures falling 
below freezing, some icy spots will be possible, especially on 
untreated surfaces. 

&&

.LONG TERM /SATURDAY THROUGH THURSDAY/...
A fast, nearly zonal flow will dominant the forecast period as
multiple frontal systems impact the area with brief stints of 
high pressure in between. The biggest issue during this time 
will be timing, especially with the system that will impact the 
area for the middle of next week. Stayed close to the NBM during
this time due to the fast flow and greater spread developing 
late in the period.

High pressure follows Saturday into Saturday night behind 
departing low pressure. A gusty NW flow and near seasonable 
temperatures are forecast during this time. Low pressure
tracking north of the Great Lakes Sunday and into eastern 
Canada Monday, will send a warm front across the area Sunday 
night, followed by a cold frontal passage late Monday. A light 
warm advection event is forecast Sunday night with a rain/snow 
mix inland and mainly rain at the coast. While there is some 
decent thermal forcing ahead of the warm front, airmass lacks 
moisture and will take some time to saturate. The looks to be 
a light QPf event with liquid equivalent amounts likely to be 
under a tenth of an inch. Temperatures will drop little Sunday 
night with cloud cover and an increasing southerly flow. In 
fact, temperatures will likely begin to rise. Far interior 
locations should be close to freezing at the onset, but then 
gradually rise. Any snowfall accumulations across the interior 
at this time look to be minor. Temperatures in the warm sector 
rebound quite nicely Monday getting well into the 40s, possibly 
50 for some locations. 

High pressure and a shot of cold air briefly follows Tuesday 
into Tuesday night, with another low track well to the north 
Wednesday into Thursday, driving another frontal system across 
the area. The operational 12Z global guidance features some 
large timing issues, with the GFS being on the slower side of 
the overrunning precipitation. This looks like another snow to 
rain event, but it is much too early to be specific with 
impacts. The frontal system due to the westerly flow aloft is 
rather slow to pass through on Thursday as the cold front lays 
down some as it approaches from the west. The NBM shows quite a 
temperature spread during this time. For example there is a 25 
degree spread noted between the 25th and 75th percentiles for 
highs on Thursday. This theme is apparent across most locations 
with a little spread at the coast. 

&&

.AVIATION /21Z THURSDAY THROUGH TUESDAY/...
High pressure over the area drifts offshore through tonight. Low 
pressure approaches from the west late tonight through Friday with a 
warm front nearing the coast during Friday.

VFR until early Friday morning, then conditions quickly lower to 
MVFR and then IFR and LIFR as precipitation begins. Mainly rain is 
expected, with a period of light freezing rain at KSWF early Friday 
morning. There is a low chance of a brief period of freezing rain at 
KTEB and KHPN at the beginning of precipitation, and with low 
chances and confidence did not include in the forecast.

West winds 10 kt or less back to SW before becoming S early this 
evening. A south to southwest flow continues into Friday morning. 
Friday morning winds becoming light and variable across the 
terminals.


     NY Metro (KEWR/KLGA/KJFK/KTEB) TAF Uncertainty...

No unscheduled amendments through late tonight. Amendments likely 
late tonight into Friday for timing of onset of precipitation, rain, 
and lowering conditions.


.OUTLOOK FOR 18Z FRIDAY THROUGH TUESDAY...

Friday afternoon - Friday night: IFR to LIFR with rain. A rain/snow 
mix possible as the precipitation ends late at night.
Becoming MVFR to VFR toward Saturday morning across western 
terminals.

Saturday: Becoming VFR in the morning.

Sunday: VFR during the day, a chance of MVFR or lower conditions at 
night, with rain along the coast and rain and snow inland.

Monday - Tuesday: VFR. 

Detailed information, including hourly TAF wind component forecasts, 
can be found at: https:/www.weather.gov/zny/n90

&&

.MARINE...
Conditions have fallen below Small craft levels. Wind gusts increase 
once again tonight, with gusts coming close to small levels on the 
ocean waters, and seas increasing to 5 ft late tonight into early 
Friday. So a new Small Craft Advisory has been issued for the ocean 
waters tonight through early Friday afternoon. The non-ocean waters 
are expected to remain below SCA levels. Winds continue to diminish 
Friday night, but seas look to build back to 5 ft on the ocean.

A gusty northerly flow on Saturday behind departing low pressure
will produce gusts near 25 kt on the ocean waters. However, a
southerly swell will allow for seas on the ocean to build to 5
to 8 ft. Winds and seas then diminish quickly Saturday night 
with high pressure building in from the west. Sub-SCA conditions
follow for Sunday with the potential for a marginal SCA Sunday 
night into Monday on the ocean waters with another frontal 
system moving across the area.

&&

.HYDROLOGY...
There are no hydrologic concerns through the middle of next 
week.

&&

.OKX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CT...Winter Weather Advisory from 4 AM to 10 AM EST Friday for 
     CTZ005-006.
NY...Winter Weather Advisory from 4 AM to 10 AM EST Friday for 
     NYZ067>070.
NJ...Winter Weather Advisory from 4 AM to 10 AM EST Friday for 
     NJZ002.
MARINE...Small Craft Advisory from midnight tonight to 1 PM EST Friday 
     for ANZ350-353.
     Small Craft Advisory from midnight tonight to 7 AM EST Friday 
     for ANZ355.

&&

$$

SYNOPSIS...BC/DW
NEAR TERM...BC
SHORT TERM...BC
LONG TERM...DW
AVIATION...MET
MARINE...BC/DW
HYDROLOGY...BC/DW
