696 
FXUS61 KOKX 240244
AFDOKX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service New York NY
1044 PM EDT Sun Mar 23 2025

.SYNOPSIS...
Low pressure impacts the region tonight into Monday, followed 
by weak high pressure on Tuesday. A weak area of low pressure 
passes to the south and east Tuesday night into Wednesday. High 
pressure then builds in to the southwest of the region Wednesday
night and Thursday, moving off the southeast coast Friday. A 
frontal system may impact the region next weekend.

&&

.NEAR TERM /UNTIL 6 AM MONDAY MORNING/...
Some brief thinning in the mid and upper level clouds have
allowed some locations across the Lower Hudson Valley to drop a
few degrees below forecast hourly temperatures. This will
continue to be monitored as a brief window of freezing rain is
possible as mentioned below. 

Otherwise, primary low center of an approaching storm system 
tracks east across the Great Lakes tonight. A secondary low 
center or triple point along an occluded boundary begins to take
shape over the Mid-Atlantic Region. This low, along with an 
attendant warm front, head our way late tonight along with the 
northeast side of a theta-ridge axis. The increasing lift and 
moisture bring a likelihood of precipitation over generally the 
western half of the forecast area towards daybreak. While some 
southern/coastal areas could see a brief wintry mix at the 
onset, precip will otherwise be rain. The wintry mix will 
however last a longer time inland north of the city with little 
snow accumulation by sunrise. Left precip types as rain or snow,
but brief sleet will also be possible. As for the threat of 
freezing rain, there appears to be a small window of time where 
surface temperatures in parts of Orange County could be freezing
while an elevated warm nose pushing in from the SW precludes 
snow and sleet. Not enough coverage and potential for advisory 
consideration at this time, but this could be addressed with a 
Special Weather Statement later in time if warranted.

&&

.SHORT TERM /6 AM MONDAY MORNING THROUGH TUESDAY/...
Any wintry mix north of the city changes to plain rain by mid- 
morning Monday as temperatures warm up. Meanwhile, rain spreads 
eastward through the rest of the forecast area early on. The 
secondary low center shifts through the area during the 
afternoon. A 50-60kt 925mb low level jet precedes its passage 
and enhances rainfall over the eastern half of the forecast area
with its upward forcing. Rainfall therefore more on the 
moderate side in intensity during the morning into early 
afternoon from around the city to points east. It may get gusty 
during this same period for these same areas with the low level 
jet passing through, but given the strength of the jet with a 
strong enough low level inversion, gusts should prevail below 
advisory thresholds. Rain otherwise ends west to east during the
mid to late afternoon hours. Models limit CAPE to well 
offshore, so no mention of thunder in the forecast. NBM looked 
good for temperatures.

Weak high pressure replaces the departing storm system Monday night 
and Tuesday with dry weather. 850mb temps on Tuesday averaging 
around -2C, but with a decent westerly flow, blended in warmer MAV 
MOS with NBM with local adjustments for highs

&&

.LONG TERM /TUESDAY NIGHT THROUGH SUNDAY/...
A upper level high amplitude longwave trough will be over the 
eastern states Tuesday night into Wednesday night with a high 
amplitude ridge over the western states. The trough begins to 
move offshore late Wednesday night as heights rise Wednesday 
night into Saturday as the upper ridge moves slowly eastward, 
and gradually weakens Saturday. With a less amplified ridge a 
shortwave will be moving rather quickly from the southwestern 
states Friday night and approach the Great Lakes late Sunday. 
The long term forecast Tuesday into Friday remains generally 
unchanged, with a weak low passing to the south Tuesday night 
into Wednesday. Then high pressure dominates Wednesday night 
into Friday. Then a warm frontal boundary develops from low 
pressure moving into the upper midwest Friday night, with some 
uncertainty as to where this boundary will develop. However, 
recent guidance suggests that the frontal forcing will be in the
vicinity of the region Friday night, and have introduced slight
chances of precipitation Friday night into Saturday. The warm 
front may move north Saturday with the area becoming warm 
sectored. Saturday night into Sunday the surface low may be 
approaching the region with increased chances of precipitation. 
There is high uncertainty with the system for next weekend, and 
for probabilities used the NBM guidance. For temperatures there 
is a lot of variance beginning Friday night into next weekend, 
and this is due to the uncertainty with the placement of the 
low. For now did lean toward warmer temperatures, toward the 
75th percentile, as other guidance suggests the front will be to
the north of the area. For the weather, there will be a chance 
of light snow across the interior Friday night, with rain along 
the coast. And then with the warmer air Saturday a transition to
all snow is expected. And as the low approaches next weekend 
precipitation will be all liquid Saturday night and Sunday.

&&

.AVIATION /03Z MONDAY THROUGH FRIDAY/...
A frontal system will impact the terminals tonight through
Monday.

VFR continues through much of tonight. Then MVFR to IFR late 
tonight into early Monday morning. Mainly IFR expected for much 
of Monday with improvement to MVFR then VFR late Monday 
afternoon into Monday night. Expecting some LIFR for Monday as 
well, best chance during the morning to early afternoon.

For KSWF, a wintry mix of snow and rain expected late tonight 
into Monday morning, then plain rain. There will be potential
for some sleet as well for a brief period early Monday morning. 
The rain becomes more intermittent and not as continuous for 
late Monday afternoon. All plain rain is expected at the rest of
the terminals. Time of heaviest rain will likely be in the
morning into the early afternoon.

Southerly flow into tonight for most terminals, remaining 
southerly through rest of TAF period. Sustained wind speeds 
generally near 5-10 kt, increasing late tonight into Monday to 
10-15 kt along coast, without much change farther inland. Gusts 
near coast near 20 kt, with a brief window were gusts can reach
up to 30 kt Monday morning. Gusts lower Monday afternoon and 
may become more intermittent.

Low level wind shear expected for a time period Monday, 12-20Z,
with 40-45 kt SW winds at 2kft just for some coastal terminals,
KJFK, KLGA, KISP and KGON.

 ...NY Metro (KEWR/KLGA/KJFK/KTEB) TAF Uncertainty... 

Timing of categorical changes could be a few hours off from 
TAF. Categories could fluctuate back and forth between MVFR and
IFR due to rain. Chances of LIFR cigs as well Monday morning
into the afternoon.

Brief window where gusts could reach 30 kt Monday morning.


.OUTLOOK FOR 00Z TUESDAY THROUGH FRIDAY...

Monday night: VFR.

Tuesday: Mainly VFR. Chance of MVFR to IFR with a wintry mix 
late Tuesday night. W wind gusts near 20 kt during the day.

Wednesday: Possible wintry mix early with MVFR to IFR. 
Precipitation transitions to mainly rain with MVFR to IFR 
possible before tapering off in afternoon. VFR returns at 
night. Afternoon NW wind gusts 15-20 kt.

Thursday: VFR.

Friday: VFR. W wind gusts 15-20 kt.

Detailed information, including hourly TAF wind component forecasts, 
can be found at: https:/www.weather.gov/zny/n90

&&

.MARINE...
Made some minor updates to the winds and gusts, mainly over the
ocean waters, this evening.

SCA remains in effect for all waters late tonight into Monday, 
with the ocean under an advisory through Monday night due to 
lingering elevated seas. Although there could be a few gusts to 
gale force mainly on the ocean late Monday morning to near 
noontime, it would be a short window when this would be 
possible, and a low level inversion would likely keep gales 
aloft during this period. After collaboration with the 
surrounding offices, decided to go with the advisory for this 
event. The SCA will probably need to be extended into Tuesday on
the ocean for seas and potentially for gusts to 25 kt as well. 
Elsewhere, gusts probably prevail below 25kt on Tuesday.

Ocean seas east of Moriches Inlet may be near 5 feet early Tuesday 
evening, then subside below 5 feet, while the remainder of the 
forecast waters will be sub advisory. Sub advisory conditions remain 
on the forecast waters Tuesday night through Thursday. Then with an 
increasing W/SW flow late Thursday night into Friday ocean seas may 
build to near 5 feet, especially for the waters east of Fire Island 
Inlet. And during Friday gusts on the eastern ocean waters may reach 
25 kt. The flow weakens Friday evening, and winds and seas on the 
ocean waters will return to sub advisory levels.

&&

.HYDROLOGY...
No hydrologic impacts expected through the end of next week.

&&

.OKX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CT...None.
NY...None.
NJ...None.
MARINE...Small Craft Advisory from 6 AM to 6 PM EDT Monday for ANZ331-
     332-340-345.
     Small Craft Advisory from 2 AM to noon EDT Monday for ANZ335-
     338.
     Small Craft Advisory from 6 AM Monday to 6 AM EDT Tuesday for 
     ANZ350.
     Small Craft Advisory from 2 AM Monday to 6 AM EDT Tuesday for 
     ANZ353-355.

&&

$$

SYNOPSIS...JC/MET
NEAR TERM...JC/MET/JT
SHORT TERM...JC
LONG TERM...MET
AVIATION...JT
MARINE...JC/MET
HYDROLOGY...MET
