257 
FXUS61 KOKX 150553
AFDOKX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service New York NY
153 AM EDT Sat Mar 15 2025

.SYNOPSIS...
Surface ridging from offshore high pressure remains over the area 
through much of Saturday. A warm front moves through Saturday 
evening and is followed by a strong cold front Monday morning. 
High pressure begins to build into the area Monday night and 
will remain in control through Wednesday. A fast moving frontal 
system approaches next Thursday, potentially impacting the area 
to end next week.

&&

.NEAR TERM /UNTIL 6 AM THIS MORNING/...
Low stratus, fog, mist, and light drizzle continue to develop 
across coastal locales early this morning with light onshore 
flow feeding the low levels with moisture. Vsbys have largely 
remained above a quarter mile as of 6Z, and fog seems to more 
patchy in nature, however will continue to monitor trends toward
daybreak with anticipation of declining conditions. Forecast 
remains on track.

Otherwise, high pressure noses in from the east tonight and 
holds its ground against low pressure tracking well west of us. 
The pressure gradient remains weak and the result is a very 
light SE/S flow. Given this set up, the main story tonight will 
be fog and drizzle. The flow has had some type of easterly 
component to it the past few days. This should mean there will 
be little stopping at least patchy fog from developing with the 
light onshore flow tonight. However, the thinking is that the 
fog will be more widespread and have stuck with areas of 2 mile 
fog in the forecast. There is potential for at least patchy 
dense fog as well. Given very weak lift and the shallow 
saturated layer, drizzle is also expected. Any drizzle or fog 
will likely move in later in the night, closer to midnight.

&&

.SHORT TERM /6 AM THIS MORNING THROUGH MONDAY/...
A SE/S flow continues on Saturday as low pressure tracks well to our 
west and high pressure remains offshore. A warm front gradually 
approaches from the south. We likely stay locked under cloud cover 
through the day, but some breaks may be possible in the afternoon. 
Temperatures likely reach the upper 50s for northeast NJ, NYC, the 
Lower Hudson Valley and interior CT, but LI and coastal CT will 
likely top out in the low 50s given the flow off the cold waters.

The warm front moves through Saturday evening and is accompanied by 
a slight chance of showers. Saturday night through Sunday the 
pressure gradient over the area increases as a strong cold front 
approaches from the west. As the front approaches and moves through, 
a combination of anomalous moisture and deep strong lift will result 
in widespread moderate to locally heavy rainfall. Per SPC's Sounding 
Climatology Page, the progged Pwat of around 1.45 inches is well 
above the max moving average (1.22 inches) and the daily max (1.25 
inches) for the 00z 3/17 OKX upper air sounding. See hydrology 
section below. 

With little MUCAPE being seen across the guidance, kept mention of 
slight chance of thunderstorms in the forecast. Limited this to 
mainly NYC and west as the time of year and time of day are working 
against any storms surviving farther east. Although there is plenty 
of shear in this environment, SB and ML CAPE is mainly zero through 
this event. This limits the severe concern of any thunderstorm that 
do develop. The SPC has trimmed back the marginal risk which is
now west of the area.

Wind gust forecast has not changed much. Due to a strong 
inversion, derived gusts by taking 60% of the NAM 925mb winds 
and blending with the NBM90th percentile wind gusts. This gave 
widespread 35 to 45 mph gusts Sunday afternoon through the first
half of Sunday night. At this time a Wind Advisory is not 
likely, but can not be completely ruled out. Isolated gusts up 
to Advisory criteria are possible.

Once the actual cold front starts moving through early Monday 
morning, the guidance is hinting at low pressure developing along 
the front to our south. This trend needs to be monitored because it 
will result in higher rainfall totals for the eastern half of the 
area. This process looks to be aided by the area being right under a 
right entrance region of an upper level jet.

&&

.LONG TERM /MONDAY NIGHT THROUGH FRIDAY/...
Key Points

*Dry conditions return Monday night and should prevail through mid 
week.

*Another frontal system potentially impacts the area to end the week 
bringing the next chance for showers, mainly Thursday and Thursday 
night.

*Temperatures look to average above normal next week. 

The deepest moisture associated with the frontal system late Sunday 
night into Monday should reside offshore by Monday night.
However, model guidance has been indicating potential for a wave to 
form on the front, which may linger a few showers across eastern 
Long Island and southeast Connecticut Monday evening.
The passage of the upper trough axis will help push this further 
offshore into Tuesday morning with high pressure building into the 
region. An upper ridge will then take shape for the mid week period. 
A piece of the departing shortwave likely becomes a cutoff low 
somewhere over the Western Atlantic, but will stay far enough away 
from the region for no impact to our sensible weather. 

The next amplifying shortwave will begin approaching Wednesday night 
into Thursday. The deterministic global models and ensemble means 
are in good agreement on the associated frontal system quickly 
sweeping across the area Thursday into Thursday night. Have held 
onto a 50 percent chance for showers late Thursday/Thursday night 
for now since this is still about a week out. The system also 
encounters lingering subsidence on the backside of the offshore 
closed low, which may limit moisture return until the system moves 
into the area. The latest NBM probabilities for observing greater 
than 1 inch in a 12 or 24 period with this system are low and less 
than 10 percent at this time.

The front should be offshore next Friday, but the upper trough may 
be overhead and could become a cutoff low somewhere over New England 
or southeast Canada. While it will likely be dry, cooler conditions 
may return with temperatures struggling to rise out of the 40s. 
Otherwise, above normal temperatures are expected through the week.

&&

.AVIATION /06Z SATURDAY THROUGH WEDNESDAY/...
High pressure slowly moves offshore with a warm front approaching 
late in the TAF period.

Low stratus and fog continue to overspread the area terminals
tonight and will remain in place through the middle portion of 
Saturday morning. Generally IFR and LIFR conditions are expected
though there may be some brief periods of MVFR. Also, expect 
areas of drizzle late tonight into early Saturday morning. 

IFR conditions expected into Saturday morning with forecast 
improvement to MVFR and possibly briefly VFR Saturday 
afternoon. Conditions are expected to lower back to IFR or lower
Saturday night. Drizzle once again likely with light rain
showers possible Saturday night.

Winds generally S-SE near 5-10 kts this afternoon. Winds become 
lighter and more variable in direction tonight before resuming a SE 
flow Saturday. Wind speeds overall will not change much.

 ...NY Metro (KEWR/KLGA/KJFK/KTEB) TAF Uncertainty...

Timing of categorical changes could be a few hours off from TAF.

.OUTLOOK FOR 06Z SUNDAY THROUGH WEDNESDAY...

Saturday night: MVFR/IFR. LIFR possible. Chance of rain 
showers. Areas of fog. Gusty SW wind gusts near 20 kt developing
late.

Sunday: Areas of fog early with IFR to LIFR possible. S-SW wind 
gusts near 30-40 kt. LLWS possible. Slight chance of rain showers, 
rain shower chances increase late afternoon, becoming likely north 
and west of NYC terminals. Rain showers expected at night, heavy at 
times. Possible thunderstorms at night near and north and west of 
NYC terminals.

Monday: Rain showers early, mainly east of NYC terminals with MVFR 
to IFR possible. Rain showers taper off afternoon into night from 
west to east. Conditions eventually return to VFR. Possible NW wind 
gusts afternoon into early evening to 20 kt.

Tuesday: VFR.

Wednesday: VFR.

Detailed information, including hourly TAF wind component
forecasts, can be found at: https:/www.weather.gov/zny/n90

&&

.MARINE...
Fog is likely this morning through and again tonight on the 
waters. There is potential for the fog to be dense at times,
with visibilities falling to less than 1 nm. This will continue
to be monitored and a Dense Fog Advisory or Marine Weather 
Statement could be needed eventually.

Sub SCA conditions expected on all waters through much of tonight.
A southerly flow then really picks up ahead of an approaching 
frontal system and Gale Conditions are expected by Sunday 
morning. A Gale Watch has been issued for all waters from 6AM 
Sunday through 6AM Monday. 35 to 40 kt gusts are possible on the
ocean waters with 10-11 foot seas. On all non ocean waters 
gusts will likely be closer to 35 kt. A cold front moves through
on Monday and sub-SCA conditions are expected thereafter. 
However 7 to 8 foot seas will linger on the ocean waters.

Winds on the waters Monday through Wednesday will remain below SCA 
levels. Ocean seas will remain elevated through mid week behind the 
departing frontal system and due to lingering SE swells from a low 
pressure over the western Atlantic.

&&

.HYDROLOGY...
A widespread 1 to 2 inches of rain is expected Sunday evening 
through Monday with the higher end of forecast totals being over 
eastern CT and eastern LI and the lower end being over the Lower 
Hudson Valley. At this time only localized minor nuisance/urban type 
flooding is anticipated.

No hydrologic impacts are expected Monday night through the end of 
next week.

&&

.OKX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CT...None.
NY...None.
NJ...None.
MARINE...Gale Watch from Sunday morning through late Sunday night for 
     ANZ331-332-335-338-340-345-350-353-355.

&&

$$

SYNOPSIS...DS/JT
NEAR TERM...BC/DS/JT
SHORT TERM...JT
LONG TERM...DS
AVIATION...MW
MARINE...DS/JT
HYDROLOGY...DS/JT
