951 
FXUS61 KOKX 290301
AFDOKX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service New York NY
1001 PM EST Tue Jan 28 2025

.SYNOPSIS...
A fast moving low will track east across the Great Lakes tonight
and then pass to the north on Wednesday, dragging a cold front 
through the area in the afternoon. High pressure briefly builds 
in on Thursday followed by low pressure and its associated 
frontal system Friday into Friday night. High pressure should 
largely remain in control this weekend into early next week, but
there is a chance for a quick moving frontal system Sunday.

&&

.NEAR TERM /UNTIL 6 AM WEDNESDAY MORNING/...
The forecast is mostly on track with minor adjustments to
temperatures and dewpoints for the next hours. 

Another fast moving clipper low will track east across the Great
Lakes tonight and into upstate NY by daybreak. This will allow 
the cold front that past to the south earlier today to return 
quickly north as a warm front this evening and then well to the
north later tonight. Guidance has trended north with the 
overrunning snow ahead of the warm front with only a slight 
chance this evening across far northern portions of the Lower 
Hudson Valley and interior southern CT. Anything that does fall 
will be light with possibly a light coating across some 
locations.

Temperatures will drop off into the 20s for all but the NYC 
metro. However, a strengthening southerly behind the warm front 
will allow temperatures to begin to rise around midnight with 
most locations above freezing by daybreak except for the far 
interior.

&&

.SHORT TERM /6 AM WEDNESDAY MORNING THROUGH WEDNESDAY NIGHT/...
Low pressure passes to the north on Wednesday sending a cold
front through the area in the afternoon. Temperatures get into
the lower to mid 40s late morning into early afternoon. This
will be very similar to what we saw on Tuesday with scattered 
showers along and ahead of the cold front and increasing west 
winds with gusts 35 to 45 mph. Model upper air soundings shows 
deep mixing during the day with 30 to 40 kt average winds in the
mixed layer and 50-60 kt at the top of the layer (near 700 mb).
However, have held back on a wind advisory as it seems unlikely
to bring the strongest winds all the way down, but like Tuesday
a few isolated gusts to 40 kt (46 mph) will be possible. This 
will be reevaluated later tonight with the 00Z model guidance. 

In addition, with the warmer mixed layer much of the showers
will be in the form rain, with possibly rain/snow mix across the
higher elevations north and west of NYC. Snow squalls seem
unlikely due to the mix and would not be as much of a factor
with warm surface temperatures. Temperatures behind the front
may drop off by as much as 5 degrees, but not expecting 
temperatures at or below freezing until the evening.

Gusty NW winds diminish some Wednesday evening, but likely stay
up much of the night. Lows by daybreak Thursday will range from
the upper teens inland to the lower 20s at the coast. This is a
few degrees below normal. Wind chill values will fall into the
upper single digits to lower teens after midnight.

&&

.LONG TERM /THURSDAY THROUGH TUESDAY/...
The synoptic pattern to start the long term consists of an 
upper level low moving out of the SW US on Thursday and 
weakening into an open wave by the time it reaches the Ohio 
Valley on Friday. The weakening wave will pass overhead late 
Friday into Friday night and then offshore Saturday. The flow 
aloft will then remain zonal this weekend into early next week. 
There is potential of a weak shortwave passage within the zonal 
flow sometime late Sunday into early Monday.

A surface ridge moves over the region Thursday and then offshore 
Thursday night. The models over the last several days were having a 
difficult time with the confluent flow across New England and the 
northward extent of the weakening shortwave. The last few model 
cycles have come into better agreement on the confluence weakening 
Thursday night allowing the parent low pressure to track either to 
our northwest or nearly over the area Friday into Friday night. The 
modeled pattern only supports a wintry mix of freezing rain and 
sleet at the onset late Thursday night into early Friday morning. 
The highest probability for this brief wintry mix lies north and 
west of the NYC metro, where surface temperatures may take longest 
to rise above freezing. Elsewhere, increasing warm advection and SW 
flow will support temperatures warm enough for plain rain. Any 
wintry mix across the interior will transition to a cold rain by mid 
morning on Friday. The exact track of the low will ultimately 
determine how warm temperatures reach on Friday, but the latest NBM 
deterministic has temperatures rising into the 40s in the afternoon 
areawide. Precip should quickly taper off Friday evening with 
limited chances for a few snow showers as the low moves offshore. 
Total liquid equivalent amounts range from one around a quarter inch 
inland to one half to three quarters closer to the coast. 

High pressure returns Saturday and pushes offshore on Sunday.
The next frontal system moves through late Sunday into Sunday night. 
Models differ on the amplitude of the associated shortwave with the 
GFS the most amplified and the ECMWF the weakest. Capped PoPs off at 
chance given the differences, which is lower than the NBM across 
interior CT. High pressure then returns early next week.

Near normal temperatures Thursday will become above normal on 
Friday. Below normal temperatures return Saturday behind the first 
frontal system before becoming above normal again Sunday and Monday.

&&

.AVIATION /03Z WEDNESDAY THROUGH SUNDAY/...
A warm front moves through tonight, followed by a cold front
Wednesday afternoon. 

VFR. Light and variable winds bcmg S-SW by midnight and
increasing from the SW through the night with gusts 20-25kt by
the start of the morning push. Winds increase further through
the morning push and gradually veer more westerly. The winds
then shift WNW in the afternoon with gusts generally around 
35kt and a peak gust of 40-45kt.

   NY Metro (KEWR/KLGA/KJFK/KTEB) TAF Uncertainty...

Winds at KLGA and KJFK could prevail SE to S 5-10kt for the next
few hours.

.OUTLOOK FOR 00Z THURSDAY THROUGH SUNDAY...

Wednesday night: VFR. NW G25-30kt eve, then 20-25kt overnight.

Thursday: VFR. NW winds G20kt in the morning.

Friday: Rain likely with MVFR or lower cond, changing to light
snow after midnight before ending. SW winds G20kt NYC metro/coast.

Saturday: Becoming VFR in the morning. NW winds G20kt until
around midday.

Sunday: Chance MVFR or lower cond mainly at night, with snow
changing to freezing rain/sleet at KSWF, and rain/snow/sleet 
NYC metros/coast. 

Detailed information, including hourly TAF wind component
forecasts, can be found at: https:/www.weather.gov/zny/n90

&&

.MARINE...
Gale warning in effect for all waters Wednesday. 

There will be a period of sub-SCA conditions this evening, but 
this will be short-lived as an approaching frontal system will 
result in a W/SW gale developing toward daybreak Wednesday and 
then becoming NW and persisting into the first half of Wednesday
night on the ocean waters. For the non-ocean waters gales will 
be a bit shorter ending toward evening. 

Conditions will remain below SCA levels on the waters Thursday into 
Thursday night. Low pressure and its associated frontal system 
impact the waters Friday into Friday night with the next chance of 
SCA conditions. SCA winds and seas may linger on the ocean Saturday 
morning followed by conditions below SCA Saturday night into Sunday.

&&

.HYDROLOGY...
There are no hydrologic concerns through early next week.

&&

.OKX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CT...None.
NY...None.
NJ...None.
MARINE...Gale Warning from 6 AM to 6 PM EST Wednesday for ANZ331-332-
     335-338-340-345.
     Small Craft Advisory until 6 AM EST Wednesday for ANZ350-353-
     355.
     Gale Warning from 6 AM Wednesday to 1 AM EST Thursday for 
     ANZ350-353-355.

&&

$$

SYNOPSIS...DS/DW
NEAR TERM...JC/DW
SHORT TERM...DW
LONG TERM...DS
AVIATION...JC
MARINE...DS/DW
HYDROLOGY...DS/DW
